Markets are ruthlessly efficient at
exposing what the weak links [music]
are. Most assets should be able to come
back within a month or two months. Um
if and when the war ends. War has a
momentum of its own. If this only lasts
for let's say a month or less, we will
be okay. There will be a snapback.
Longer term, there is still that
diversification story. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with [music] Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Annmarie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. [music]
Coming into Tuesday with stocks down and
crude higher. Iranian attacks on energy
assets keeping Brent crude in triple
digits as President Trump is delaying
his summit with China's Xi Jinping.
Chair Powell's Fed is beginning a
two-day meeting stuck between a rock and
a very hard place.
>> What you have right now is increasing
inflation and decreasing growth
projections, which is exactly this
stagflationary type of mix that central
bankers
absolutely hate. David Teague of Nomura
yesterday saying watch the descent. I
think it's a really salient point. 9 to
3 is what he potentially could expect.
How much does this end up being a dovish
decision or a hawkish decision to do
nothing? If in doubt, do nothing and say
little and appear to be very
noncommittal in the news conference. The
forecast is where this gets really,
[music] really tricky. Finger in the air
type stuff. Which way is the wind
blowing? I've got no idea how you put a
forecast together in a moment [music]
like this.
>> Nonetheless, they have to put out a
statement of economic projections. And
nonetheless, people are going to read
into it much more than maybe some of the
participants mean as they put their
projections out there just because how
do you know anything? You can expect
them to increase their inflation
expectations and [music] decrease their
growth expectations, which leaves them
with a really interesting question of
can they still forecast one or two rate
cuts for the remainder of 2026?
>> It's another moment on Wall Street
drinking from the fire hose. Headline
after headline crossing the Bloomberg
this morning. This one
>> [music]
>> notable in the last hour from the
defense minister of Israel saying
[music] the security chief in Iran has
been quote eliminated. That headline
crossing just moments ago. This is one
of the most important people in Iran in
terms of the security as well as an
individual that was sanctioned by the
United States in January when it comes
to the deadly brutal crackdown of those
protesters, the Iranian people. So, this
is going to be an incredibly big deal in
Israel as well as in the United States
as they continue their campaign against
this regime. Brent crude this morning
10290 WTI 96. Equity futures looking
attempting to build on yesterday's gains
just about negative by 10th of 1%.
Coming up this hour we'll catch up with
Julian Emanuel of Evercore with stocks
coming off their best day in 5 weeks.
The former deputy national security
advisor Victoria Coates as President
Trump demands support for Hormuz. And
Tony Wong of T. Rowe Price as Nvidia
sees chip revenue reaching 1 trillion
dollars. We'll begin this hour with our
top story. A new wave of Iranian attacks
on key energy sites across the Middle
East keeping crude in triple digits.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's Joumanna
Bercetche out of Dubai. Joumanna,
welcome to the program. A key headline
crossing just an hour ago. Annmarie
broke it down. An individual we've been
tracking for quite a while.
Yeah, well this would be the most
prominent assassination in the Islamic
Republic and for Iran since they took
out uh the supreme leader on day one of
the operations. So, you're referring to
the uh the killing of Ali Larijani per
the Israel defense minister. We're still
awaiting confirmation from Iran of
course, but this is a key figurehead,
another key figurehead within the
regime. He has He had been appointed to
uh the head of the National Supreme
Security Council last August. Uh which
means effectively he's been responsible
for many of the military and also
nuclear decisions uh on behalf of the
Islamic Republic. Uh he was very close
to the former supreme leader Khamenei
and would have been involved as well in
many of the military decisions that
would have been taken throughout the
course of this war that's been going on
for 17 days now. Uh also interesting is
that he had been posting post after
post, messages of defiance. He'd been
last seen walking the streets of Tehran
on Friday at a pro-government
demonstration, sending words of defiance
to President Trump, saying to him that
it's very easy to start a war on
Twitter, but it's not easy to get out of
it. And of course, now the IDF and
Israeli defense minister saying that
they have successfully eliminated him
alongside the chief of the Basij, which
is the paramilitary force, the
paramilitary arm. Again, that is a huge
uh IRGC-adjacent
group that are responsible for putting
down any uh sort of
uh opposition that emerges to the
Islamic Republic and had a very
effective role in those brutal crackdown
on the demonstrations demonstrations
that we saw at the beginning of this
year. So, two key people eliminated. Um
but at the same time, Iran have
continued to be defiant, and you
mentioned these strikes on key energy
infrastructure. That is ongoing over
here in the UAE. It's been another very
challenging evening. Residents received
a couple of missile alerts throughout
the course of the night. The airspace
was temporarily halted for a couple of
hours, and then it emerged that Iran had
also targeted a gas field. This is in a
quite a remote area of the UAE. It's
known as the Shah gas field, um
responsible for about 20% of UAE gas
production. Sulfur specifically, which
supplies around 5% of the global sulfur
market. Uh limited operations there now.
Another fire once again at that key port
on on the Gulf of Oman, Fujairah, also
halting operations there, too. And
remember, you will recall that a week
ago they also targeted a key refinery in
the UAE, the Ruwais refinery, which is
also seeing a halt in production. So,
the blows to energy infrastructure keep
incoming. I should say though
interception rates are high
and a lot of the holds in production we
have seen is on back of precautionary
measures as opposed to these facilities
sustaining serious amount of damage. But
the point is that
Iran continues to strike back and on
non-US assets. Jumana Abu Seichi with
the latest. Jumana, appreciate your time
as always over in Dubai. More from
Jumana in the next hour. Here's what we
are on Wall Street this morning. Julian
Emanuel of Evercore writing this is one
of the riskiest moments of the 21st
century but betting on the end of the
world has been a losing proposition
consistently since 1982 and we expect
that to be the case once more. Julian
joins us now for more. Julian, good
morning. Good to see
>> Good morning. Is that 5% dip a buyable
one?
Well, it it it's actually the better
question is if you
>> That's a better question than the one I
asked There is definitely better
questions, John.
If we had known that you were going to
more than double from the December low
in oil to where we got to a week a week
and change ago
and we saw the string of payroll reports
that we've seen over the last 6 months.
Would you have really thought that
stocks would only have been down 5%
essentially in a 6-month range?
We would have thought the number would
be down 15, 20 or 25%. It speaks to the
resilience of the market. It speaks to
the resilience of the economy
and and ultimately in our view the fact
that you're going to get double-digit
earnings growth this year speaks to the
fact that markets can move higher.
>> It's impressive. Some people might say
complacent. I would say it's impressive
because of the earnings profile. You did
some work on this. I read through the
research. Just walk through how good
earnings are at the moment and
traditionally what that means for an
equity market going forward. So and and
this is the irony of it. We're
projecting 11.1% growth for 2026 and we
are below consensus, okay? And and when
we create those numbers, we like to put
out a number where we see symmetrical
risk, and that and we feel good about
that. But in fact, when you have had
double-digit earnings growth, you've had
that 11 times since 1996, 10 of the 11
years the market has been up, the
average is 13%.
Uh that's a very compelling story for
us. I was struck by the split screen. On
one hand, we're talking gloom doom, the
end of the world, World War World War
III, and then people were completely
wowed by an AI robotic Olaf who came out
and could speak and was so cute, and
everybody was so excited, and Jensen
Huang talked about a trillion dollars in
sales through 2027. Is some of that
earnings really being driven by the
artificial intelligence, the deployment,
etc., or is it still broad-based? Is it
still on the expectation that the US
economy can move through whatever kind
of oil shock we experience? Well, so so
our work on oil says, you're actually at
the point where time and price are
meeting, and that's why we're seeing
this volatility. The market and the
psychology can cope with prices in the
'90s for a short amount of time.
Uh the real breakpoint for the consumer
is $4 a gallon in gasoline. We're
getting close there. We've seen in the
past, whether it was 2022 or 2008, that
that precipitates economic slowdowns,
that precipitates market turn downs. Uh
so that's why there is an urgency to
sort of moving the narrative, but from
our point of view, when you think about
earnings power, it really goes back to
this idea that productivity has been
increasing over the last couple of years
for reasons other than AI.
And now all of a sudden, you're starting
to hear much more concrete evidence,
which we think will continue to
accelerate throughout 2026, about how AI
is being used for both cost save and
revenue generation.
>> getting to the point where oil prices
start to pressure the consumer and start
to pressure just exactly what we're
looking at, why is credit not reacting
more strongly?
Well, again, credit has gotten a little
bit ruffled the last few days and
there's this sort of circular logic. In
fact, the hedging in both the equity
markets and the credit markets and in
fact to the upside in the oil markets
taking together are as extreme as we've
ever seen them. And this, you know,
dates dates back, but I was a a
youngster on the trading desk in the
first Gulf War in the early 1990s and it
wasn't as extreme as this. So, I would
argue that number one, again, going back
to the earnings profile, going back to
the consumer
staying steady,
um really says that credit is holding in
and in fact the place where credit is
stressed, uh in high-tech, uh high-yield
tech, uh it's really been contained. Uh
and again, to the extent that growth
continues to look north of 2%, we think
it can stay contained. Julian, is the
bigger issue this morning or the fact
that diesel is above $5 a gallon? We
haven't seen that since December of '22
and this has a bigger effect on the
economy than just consumers going to the
pump.
I it it it certainly it is an effect.
We'll have to see how how how that plays
out. Obviously, uh the logistics
companies and and frankly, when you
think about the last couple of months,
whether it's a function of speculation
or the function of the potential for
rising
uh uh fuel prices, you have seen more
volatility in logistics company share
prices uh than we've seen in a lot of
other areas. So, it's definitely an
ongoing issue, but again,
I think you're probably uh still a
little bit away, our work says, uh from
the breakpoint where it does dampen
economic activity.
>> We often say in financial markets that
markets can shape the events they
anticipate.
And I think it's good news that we're
not getting a material tightening of
financial conditions. That you are still
seeing capital markets somewhat wide
open. We had just yesterday JP Morgan
selling nearly $15 billion of debt to
back the biggest leverage buyout ever.
And how was demand?
Pretty decent. And it really speaks to
this idea again,
going back to one of the reasons that
the credit markets are as well-behaved
as they are in general.
That particular issuance
is really sort of overlooked
as
a soothing factor saying that things are
still open and there is value being
created by this spread widening where
people are willing to enter. Julian,
good to see you. As always, a
constructive view going forward. Julian
Emmanuel there of Evercore. The earnings
profile is decent and capital markets
are still open. That's supportive of
risk for now. Yeah, you could argue that
the reason why you're seeing investment
grade spreads widen is because the
issuance has been just tremendous. And
you're seeing the issuance pipeline
continue to grow and people come to
market and sell bonds, sell loans. So,
exactly where is the stress coming from?
And I think that that really gives you
the reason for what some people are
calling complacency.
>> Things can change very, very quickly.
That's for sure. Equity futures on the
S&P negative here by about 0.2%.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more. Hi
Yahara. Good morning, John. [music]
Brent's continuing to trade above $100 a
barrel as Iran strikes new targets
across the Persian Gulf. The UAE
suspending operations at the Shaybah
natural gas field due to a fire. While a
drone attack temporarily shut the
Fujairah ports, an Iraqi oil field, and
a key Emirati port were also targeted.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump
requesting a delay to his summit with
his Chinese [music] counterpart Xi
Jinping for about a month. The president
citing the need to stay in Washington to
oversee the Iran war. Trump was
scheduled to travel to China from March
31st to April. Teams from the two
countries met in Paris in recent days
ahead of the summit.
And Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang predicting
the company's flagship AI processors
will generate $1 [music] trillion in
sales through 2027. Speaking at the
company's biggest annual event, Huang
also unveiled a
>> [music]
>> variety of new products and plans to
push deeper into central processing
units. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John. Yeah, Yuharra, thank you. I
appreciate the update, Yuharra. There
more from Yuharra later on in the hour.
Almost forgot, Julian.
SEC quarterly reporting.
Got to squeeze that in. Can we survive
without that? Quarterly earnings.
Look,
you want things in general that [music]
cause less market volatility, not more.
I don't know that it that it would
change investor behavior to that great
[music] an extent.
We like frequent reports.
>> Want to squeeze that in. It's good to
see you. I know it's important to see
you. [music] Up next on the program,
we'll talk about that a little bit
later. Calling for a coalition.
Numerous countries have told me they're
on the way.
Uh some are very enthusiastic about it
and some aren't. Some are countries that
we've helped for many, many years and uh
they weren't that enthusiastic. Up next,
we'll catch up with the former deputy
national security advisor Victoria
Coates from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Snap at a four-day slide on the S&P 500
in yesterday's session. Back in course
for the clients this morning. We're down
by 2/10 of 1% on the S&P. On the Nasdaq
down by a third. Pretty much a little
stuff. [music] But the inverse
correlation between equities and crude
sticks. It holds. Check out crude. WTI
Brent Brent up by 3% 103.36. WTI just
short of 97. Up by 3 [music] percentage
points this morning. Under Savannah's
this morning calling for a coalition.
Numerous [music] countries have told me
they're on the way.
And some are very enthusiastic about it
and some aren't. Some are countries that
we've helped for many, many years.
Uh we protected them
from horrible outside sources.
And they weren't that enthusiastic.
We'll protect them.
And
if ever needed, if we ever needed help,
they won't be there for us. So here's
the latest this morning. The president's
struggling to find a coalition to escort
tankers through the Strait of Hormuz.
The president also threatening to expand
strikes on Kharg Island, Iran's main oil
export hub. Bloomberg's Tyler Cowen
joins us now from Washington for more.
Good morning, Tyler.
Hey John, good morning. Well, President
Trump maintains that the Strait of
Hormuz will get going in his words,
quote, "very soon" as he reiterated his
call for allies to surge assets to the
region. But as you heard, it's
highlighting what's been past strained
relations between the Trump
administration and traditional allies
when it comes to defense spending. Plus
our own analysts at Bloomberg Economics
say that for our European partners in
particular, they're constrained by
capabilities and politics. But also they
risk not acting now to help the Trump
administration with the war in Iran
could compromise this White House's
engagement when it comes to the war in
Ukraine. The thing is at this moment our
allies appear weary at best at meeting
the president's demand for naval escorts
to go to the strait. And at this point
we heard from a flurry of leaders,
including the German Chancellor Merz
yesterday, who said that NATO is a
defensive alliance, not an intervention
alliance. And the UK Prime Minister Keir
Starmer, who appeared to refuse to say
whether or not the country would commit
resources before a ceasefire is reached.
We did hear from President Trump
yesterday suggesting that Secretary of
State Marco Rubio could soon announce a
coalition, though he declined to give
further details. John, as you well know,
it appears Iran is allowing some vessels
to move through the strait as this
morning. Iraq confirmed it's currently
in negotiations with the country after
being one of the first producers to cut
output when the conflict began. Some of
those headlines bringing traders a bit
of comfort in the last 24 hours.
Something to keep on tracking, Tana.
Thank you, Tana Candle there outside the
White House this morning. To build on
this conversation, the former Deputy
National Security Advisor Victoria
Coates joins us for more. Victoria,
welcome back to the program. Let's just
recap some headlines. So, an hour ago,
we got a headline from Israel, a
minister from Israel, that the security
chief in Iran had been, quote,
eliminated. The fate of the supreme
leader is still very much unclear at
this point. Who is leading the war
effort in Iran?
Well, good morning, John. It's very
difficult to tell. The elimination of
Ali Larijani, who is essentially their
national security advisor, is is a huge
blow to them. He has is a long-term
politician. He was the speaker of their
parliament, also deeply involved in
their nuclear program, part of a very
powerful family, and would have been in
contention to be one of the
a candidate, rather, to be supreme
leader in the event that Mojtaba
Khamenei turns out to not survived his
injuries. So, this is this is a huge
blow to the decision-making of the
Iranian government. Again, another
powerful figure. He was marching in the
Quds Day parade last Friday, very active
Twitter feed. His pin tweet is mopping
the dignified transfer of our six heroes
through Dover earlier this month. So,
this is this is a very, very big deal
and I think will contribute to the just
kind of disintegration of command and
control that we've seen in in Tehran. A
significant development of development
for sure, Victoria. This morning coming
off the heels of what the president said
yesterday, we don't know if he's dead or
alive, talking about the supreme leader.
Nobody's seen him, which is unusual.
Building on Jonathan's point, if the US
wants to have discussions with the
regime, who do they actually have an
outreach to?
Well,
again, that's this is an excellent
question and I think what we may start
to see are some lesser-known figures who
are more kind of career bureaucrats in
the Iranian system start to step
forward. We'll see if this has the
intended effect of getting what what's
left of the Iranian leadership to
reconsider their very hardline positions
and potentially, you know, they will
reach out to the Americans to try to
make a deal. Another problem they have,
Lisa, though, is that that they have
been um they've been attacking
systematically all of their neighbors,
including countries like Oman and Qatar,
who traditionally are interlocutors.
They're the negotiators who could be
carrying out these discussions, but by
very aggressively attacking them, Iran
has alienated them. So, they're not all
that interested in talking to the
Iranians either. So, so the Iranians are
in a
>> [clears throat]
>> in a increasingly difficult position.
When it comes to energy and the flow
through the Strait of Hormuz, do you
think the president is going in the end
to get this coalition together? He
voiced a tremendous amount of
frustration yesterday with the countries
he had previously called upon.
Yes, and and you know, what this should
have happened 10 years ago. I mean, the
United States is not dependent on the
flow of energy out of the Gulf. The
countries who are countries like China,
South Korea, the Europeans, you know,
they have to have that energy. We don't.
And so, the fact that we've been
spending billions upon billions of
dollars in ensuring this safe passage is
is patently unfair. So, this is the kind
of capability that these countries
should have developed a long time ago.
The president's absolutely correct on
calling on them to do it. However, the
fact of the matter is that particularly
for the Europeans, they don't have the
kind of force the ability to project
power
force force protection. They haven't
been building their navies and so it's
not that Keir Starmer, you know, doesn't
want to send you know, carrier to the
the Gulf. I don't think he can at this
point. I don't think he has the force
readiness. I mean they couldn't even get
a destroyer to Cyprus in 10 days at the
beginning of the war. So, so I think
we're really exposing a terrible
weakness in NATO and something that
needs to be addressed long-term.
Long-term, what does that mean for the
future of NATO?
Well, I mean I think it could be a
really good thing for the future of
NATO. I think what the president did at
the at the NATO summit last year in The
Hague getting our European allies to
commit to that 5% of GDP on defense was
an excellent first step. We need that
money to be spent though. We need those
ships to be purchased and then if if
they want to protect their national
interests, their energy security, then
they should be able to deploy them.
Does it make it easier or harder to open
the Strait of Hormuz that we have chaos
right now in Tehran?
I guess that's sort of a mixed bag. I
mean the the more we degrade their
ability to fire missiles, you know, the
the easier it is to open the straight.
But that said, you know, one guy with a
limpet mine on a small boat can do a lot
of damage. So, so it remains a menace
and a nuisance. But the other thing we
have that's coming online and and looks
like we can expand its capacity are some
pipelines that bypass the straight. We
have Petroline in Saudi Arabia from
Abqaiq to Yanbu essentially from the
Persian Gulf to the Red Sea that can run
apparently. We thought it was about 5
million barrels a day. It's up around
eight now. So, that's not all of the 20
million barrels that usually come out of
the Gulf, but it's a big chunk of it.
So, I think we'll see that pipeline
activity expand and that really in a way
diffuses the Iranian the Iranian threat.
Victoria, always good to catch up. It's
good to touch base as always. The former
deputy national security advisor,
Victoria Coates that that East-West
pipeline. Thank goodness the Saudis saw
this happening ahead of time. Right, but
the conversations I'm having with people
is what if the Houthis get involved in
the Red Sea and the Bab al-Mandab
Strait. And if they start attacking
ships there, that means that basically
that crude that Saudi is banking on
going through that pipeline and boarding
those ships in the Red Sea, that is
going to become another tremendous
problem.
>> been a problem over the last couple of
years. Victoria was talking about how
exposed two countries now, Japan and
South Korea. This from Selk Jan, the
most exposed to Hormuz. They have
historically sourced 81% and 62%
respectively of that crude from the
Strait.
>> This is the reason why you're seeing
some of those stocks, some of those
assets selling off most significantly
and why some of those governments have
taken immediate action to finance some
of the increases in cost of living. Up
next on the program, we'll catch up with
Tony Wanger to your price as Nvidia
announces a $1 trillion forecast. Plus
Yohay, has your morning movers, energy
stocks rising alongside the rally in
crude.
Snapped a four-day losing streak on the
S&P 500 in yesterday's session. Equities
dipping 5% from all-time highs and that
dip got bought briefly. Now, we decline
by a quarter of 1% on the S&P and the
Nasdaq down by 0.3. [music]
If that's where stocks are, you can
guess where crude is. This is where
crude is right now. WTI [music] and
Brent Brent closing above 100 for a
third consecutive session adding to it
this morning up by 3%. Brent's at
103.53.
And in the bond market, things get very
interesting. Yields backing up by 30
basis points over the first 2 weeks of
March. And all of a sudden, [music]
everyone seems to be saying buy bonds.
This from JP Morgan's Mislav Matejka. We
think that the move in bond markets
[music] might not sustain. If this
conflict ultimately leads to a
recession, it is of course unlikely
central banks will be hiking. And if
there is a respite, any inflation spike
might be
>> [music]
>> looked through. Buy bonds either way. It
will be a growth shock given the fact
that people are looking to a potentially
slowing growth, the idea of consumers
that are pulling back because they don't
have enough money beyond just simply to
[music] finance the higher oil prices.
And this is a reason why people are
saying, "Look, either way, people are
overestimating the the inflationary
shock of oil or people are
overestimating how long growth can
remain this solid."
>> 4:22 on tens this morning at the front
end of the curve. Two's at 3.67. The
Fed's two-day meeting begins a little
bit later this morning. As we count you
down to the open in about 3 hours away,
let's get you some morning movers here.
Yuh-Hira has more. Hi, Yuh-Hira. Hi,
John. [music] You are seeing a clear
move into US energy right now with oil
prices, as you said, uh triple digits
right now after Iran struck an uh gas
field in the UAE as well as other
targets in the [music] Persian Gulf. And
that is sending names like Seadrill
offshore and Occidental higher as
investors look for domestic names that
are removed from the conflict but still
benefits from the rise
>> [music]
>> in crude prices. Uh meanwhile, one of
the headline deals coming out of
Nvidia's GTC [music] conference is
sending shares of Uber higher two uh two
and three quarters percent. The two
companies announcing plans to launch
Nvidia-powered robot taxis in 20 eight
cities [music] by 2028.
Lyft's also seeing a boost. Shares are
up 1.3% after it also announced a
partnership with Nvidia to use its AI
for its machine learning systems.
[music]
And we end on a big mover to the
downside, and that is Lensar. This is an
eye care company. Shares are plunging
23% [music] after its takeover deal with
Alcon, which of course makes contact
lenses fell apart. The two companies
agreeing to terminate the [music] merger
following nearly a year of regulatory
review and pushback by the [music] FTC.
John. Yohana, I appreciate the update.
Thank you. Just reading through the fund
manager survey just dropping from Bank
[music] of America just moments ago.
This is the title, a cash surge but no
equity capitulation. [music]
Growth optimism tanking, cash levels
surging. Here's some numbers for you.
Global growth optimism has slumped to a
net 7% from 39%. Inflation expectations
have jumped to a net 45% from 9%. The
epicenter of this of course is the
Middle East. On risk, geopolitics and
inflation replace an eight-high bubble
as the biggest [music] tail risk. And on
asset allocation, Bramo, a March
rotation from boom to stagflation. Yeah,
and the question of how where do you put
your money? Well, cash. We saw cash
levels in the survey jump from 3.4%
[music] in February to 4.3% in March,
which Michael Hartnett said was the
biggest one-month jump [music] going
back to the pandemic. So, trying to
raise cash. Yet, to your point earlier,
not pricing in a recession, which really
highlights that people aren't willing to
throw their chips in and explains why
we're seeing the action that we are in
risk assets.
>> short in consumer discretionary stocks
the most underway since [music] December
2022. We'll keep coming back to those
lines coming out of the Bank of America
global fund manager survey published
just moments ago. [music] On a radar
this morning, Morgan Stanley warning
default rates for private credit lines
could reach 8%. Analysts saying AI
disruption within the software sector
would push defaults to levels unseen
since the pandemic. Elsewhere, Iran
striking new targets across the Gulf
hitting key energy sites in neighboring
countries. The UAE suspending operations
at an oil field and export terminal
following fresh missile attacks and
drone attacks, too. And finally,
President Trump pushing to delay his
planned meeting with China's Xi Jinping
by a month with the war in Iran
remaining his priority.
I don't know. We're working on that
right now. I I
We're speaking to China. I'd love to,
but because of the war, I want to be
here. I have to be here, I feel.
Um and so we've requested that we delay
it a month or so and and I'm looking
forward to being with them. We have a
very good relationship. China reportedly
welcoming the delay given the chances
the war could lead to embarrassing
moments during the summit that according
to a person familiar with the matter.
>> Yeah, and also because they haven't
really made a lot of headway in going
into this. They just had that 3-hour
meeting between different negotiators
from both China and the US and didn't
really come to any resolution. And
typically China likes to have something
buttoned up to present these summits.
Also interesting though in terms of the
signal from President Trump. Does this
indicate the distraction from the war in
Iran is making it difficult to tackle
some of the other issues that he has out
there. And I think that that's something
that increasingly some of the
foreign relations members are talking
about and wondering what that does for
the leverage dynamic.
>> Look, when you have tens of thousands of
servicemen and women in the Middle East
and we have also had some casualties,
there is no place the US president needs
to be than Washington D.C. And the
optics as well would have been bad. Of
course there's a number of issues, the
fact that actually they haven't dived
into these details. They are unprepared
for this meeting. The Chinese actually
wanted it at the end of April. So for
them, they're thinking that this
actually works well for them. But at the
same time, this is a prudent decision
for the president.
>> Reading between the lines, doesn't it
also suggest they're prioritizing stable
trade relations with China right now
because of the optics? You could end up
in a situation, an embarrassing moment
where the president is basically saying
we need to reopen the strait. China
depends on the oil coming out of the
strait. Why aren't you doing enough? And
ultimately, I think that's the tension
they're trying to avoid. Absolutely.
Beijing does not want that attention.
The president every single day when he
talks about the Strait of Hormuz talks
about the fact that the country that's
the most reliant on it for their fossil
fuels or the country that gets all of
the Iranian the lion's share of the
Iranian crude is China and that's going
to be incredibly awkward for Beijing.
>> That's the latest on China this morning.
Let's turn to tech the Nvidia CEO Jensen
Huang reassuring investors with a
massive sales forecast of the company's
biggest annual event.
Right here where I stand
I see
through 2027
at least
$1 trillion.
A trillion dollars is an enormous amount
of infrastructure. That infrastructure
investment you could make on Nvidia you
could make with complete confidence.
We have now proven that. Tony Wang of
Price writing strategically Nvidia isn't
just selling GPUs anymore. They're
trying to be the platform agents are
built on. Tony joins us now for more.
Tony let's pick up on that number and
welcome to the program buddy. One
trillion. What's he talking about? One
trillion what?
Yeah, well I mean it's a definitely a
really big infrastructure number. Um but
I think that what's really important is
what underpins it and I think we're
seeing like cloud code you know open
cloud and these are just autonomous
agents that can continue to be operating
24/7. I think that's what's really
exciting here and that you don't have to
have as much human intervention and so
to me you know that was a big takeaway
for me that infra things really taking
off here. Tony I just want to stand the
numbers. What are their revenue numbers
right now and what do you project for
27?
Well look I think that the numbers are
big you know they continue to grow and
these are sustainability here
and the market is looking at is that
what are the three and five year numbers
going to look like?
For me I think there's a lot of doubt
right now that the market is assigning
it. I mean historically semis are very
cyclical and so I don't think we've seen
these kind of growth rates these kind of
numbers and so
you know to me the tech trends and the
first principles of how the unit
economics the ROI on these tokens.
That's what matters to me when I look
out here. Yeah, the trillion-dollar
number just putting into perspective,
crunching some numbers. The total sales
for Nvidia since 1999 total less than
$600 billion. So this would be more than
more than what they have done in all of
that time. Does it exceed what you were
expecting though going into this
particular conference?
I think the number is really impressive.
I mean, they're clearly upsized it from
last year and to me it's a continuous
you know, improvement in demand.
And then when I look at like the road
map, what's really important is that
they are continuously dropping the token
cost and you saw that they are
integrating with Grok, their new
acquisition and so these really
impressive influencing stats that are
going down in terms of cost by 35 times.
And so I think it's really like the
demand meeting like their product road
map and becoming the influencing
platform that agents build on is really
important because there's all these new
TAMs that are coming
you know, online like robotics as well
as agentics. So
you know, the the partnership with BYD
for example and Uber, those are really
important you know, statements in terms
of people building on the ecosystem. I'm
glad you picked up on the cheaper aspect
and this goes to the whole CPU, the
central processing unit that Nvidia has
worked on. Given the fact that Intel and
AMD are trying to chart a territory into
there to really eat some of Nvidia's
lunch. How much did Nvidia fight back
and actually impede some of the efforts
that we've seen from some of the other
chip makers?
Yeah, well I think that it's becoming
more of a system level solution and so
you have to bring the full rack and
connected everything with the software
and so to me I think the CPU is just one
of the core areas of development and
it's becoming you know, a bottleneck
every time you speed up one part, you
know, whether it's a GPU, then there's a
networking, then there's the memory, and
then there's also the CPU. And so, I
think that's why Nvidia has been
developing their own CPU because of
that. And so, um to me, I think it's a
whole system solution. It's not just one
piece that you need to focus on. Tony,
what struck me is one of these slides
behind Jensen Huang, and he talk he's
talking about the $1 trillion to 2027,
but at the same time, 60% of revenues
come from hyperscalers. So, hyperscalers
need to do well for Nvidia to do well.
Is that a huge vulnerability right now?
Well, I think the hyperscalers have a
internal workloads as well as external.
So, a lot of that is selling to
um you know, Fortune 500 companies, new
AI startups. And so, to me, it's a
pretty distributed customer set. And so,
what's important for them is like, you
know, are the total cost going down?
Essentially, they rent these GPUs out,
right? So, if you have the best AI
system, um and you saw the performance
improvements are, you know, anywhere
from 3 to 10x,
um you know, with the new systems, it
makes sense because you can make more
money renting them out. So, to me,
that's like what really matters in the
hyperscalers and aggregate demand in
many ways. Tony, before you go, can we
just finish on the story of the moment,
the story that's dominated the headlines
for the last several weeks, and that's
the Middle East? That was a source of
revenue and growth for this company, and
a lot of headlines came out of some
meetings in that region over the last
year. To what extent are developments
upended in the hope that that will be a
a big source of revenue in the years to
come?
Well, I think that the Middle East is a
big opportunity uh prize for US tech
companies and infrastructure. Um you
know, there's clearly a lot of demand
there. There it makes sense in terms of
strategically what those countries are
trying to do, and they have uh really
efficient energy production. And so, um
to me, it's an extension of the US tech
platform. It's important uh you know,
for the ecosystem that um you know,
innovation is built on it. So, to me, I
think that what's going on in the Middle
East right now is, you you hopefully um
you know, resolves itself pretty soon
and so I think longer term the tech
brands are usually what's most important
to drive
drive the companies. Tony, good to see
you. Thank you, sir. Tony Wong there of
T. Rowe Price on Nvidia putting $1
trillion into perspective, some context
here about how much money that company
has actually generated through its
history. Which is the reason why your
question's a good one. Is this bookings
or is this sales through 2027 given the
fact that the total volume of sales
going back to 1999
was $567 billion. They're talking about
a trillion dollars in less than 2 years
exceeding by far anything that they have
earned in the past several decades. It
just highlights the pace of growth. Is
this so much faster than people were
expecting? Can they continue this pace?
And what exactly are we talking about
with this a trillion dollar number? I
think that a lot of people are going to
be asking that.
>> Yeah, the stock investors find that
story pretty quickly yesterday after it
spiked. The stock this morning positive
by about 0.3% of the pre-market. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with you Bloomberg Brief
Yuharra's back with more. Hi Yuharra. Hi
John.
The nationwide average of US diesel is
above $5 a gallon for the first time
since December 2022 [music]
as the war across the Middle East
continues to disrupt supply chains. And
according to the US Energy Information
Administration,
>> [music]
>> prices for residential heating oil have
also climbed above $5 a gallon.
>> [music]
>> Quite the chart there.
Meanwhile, Chinese Vice Premier He
Lifeng urging the US to completely
remove unilateral tariffs [music] during
trade talks with American negotiators in
Paris. China's state news agency
reporting He Lifeng
warns that Beijing was ready to take
steps to safeguard its interests. US
Trade Representative James Zimmerman
Greer [music] said the two sides are
considering setting up a new mechanism
to oversee economic ties.
And the SEC reportedly preparing a
proposal that would remove the quarterly
earnings report requirement. Sources
telling the Wall Street Journal
companies [music] will be given the
option to report just twice a year and
that the proposal could be published as
soon as next month. The rule is expected
to make quarterly reporting optional,
not eliminate it altogether. [music]
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Johanna, thank you. Appreciate it. You
just wonder how much that would change.
How many companies would still choose to
publish quarterly? We've already heard
from a lot of them saying that they
still would have to publish quarterly
because it would be demanded by them of
investors. Look, if investors were
worried that there was some sort of
malfeasance or some sort of surprise to
the downside, well, they would start to
sell the stocks because when in doubt,
sell. I mean, haven't we learned? Isn't
the story of this year transparency and
the lack of it leading to people to just
bail? Dennis and transparency from
Delta. Right now, some companies give
you updates outside of quarterly
earnings as well. Delta Airlines, demand
momentum. The first quarter revenue
growth they see in the high single
digits. They had seen 5 to 7%. [music]
That stock in the pre-market getting a
nice little pop in early trading. Yeah,
expect [music] a bunch of the airlines
to restate their forward-looking
expectations. They're at a conference, a
JP Morgan conference in Washington, D.C.
[music]
They're talking about how demand and
capacity growth is still continuing to
gain momentum. Look, big question, who
is the best protected from this? Delta
has a refinery, so they've been able to
offset some of the impact. Whether we
get the same story from some of the
other airlines is another case.
>> Investors might be happy this morning.
This stock is higher by more than 3%. I
don't [music] think travelers are right
now. I'm not sure flyers are happy in
this country at all.
>> Absolutely not. Jet fuel's going up, so
flight costs are going up and at the
same time DHS is still shut. So, if
you're someone like me that recently
came back on international trip, you
cannot use global entry and all these
other issues and the lines are very long
and it's a headache. Prices have gone
up, lines are getting longer. Up next on
the program, two-sided risk from the
Middle East.
The Fed will have to increasingly
acknowledge the two-sided risk from
this. It's not even clear that its
response would be to be more hawkish
as is being priced in. Blake Winfield
RBC Capital Markets joins us next live
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
This is the kind of moment where
corporate America and investors are
looking for corporate America to provide
some positive guidance and [music]
you're getting that from Delta Airlines
just moments ago. The stock is higher in
the pre-market by 3.6%. They've raised
their revenue forecast. They see some
demand momentum. Here's the new number
for you for the first quarter. Revenue
growth [music] in high single digits.
They had seen a range of 5 to 7%. The
latest from Delta leads to the stock
higher by more than 3%. Yeah, they
didn't mention that capacity growth was
impacted by winter [music] storms. They
also talk about other potential issues.
That said, the fact that they're
maintaining guidance and they're talking
about momentum at a time when people are
expecting some pretty dire forecast from
airlines speaks to at least this
airline's resilience in the face of a
lot of chaos. Whether you get the same
tone from the others that are presenting
at the J.P. Morgan [music] conference
will be something that we'll be watching
throughout the morning. Yes, we'd often
say is this a Delta story or a consumer
story? It's often just a Delta story and
we'll find out when we hear from the
others. Equity futures doing better off
the lows. We're down by just two-tenths
of 1% on the S&P and as the two-day
meeting gets set to begin [music]
down in Washington D.C. over the Federal
Reserve, your bond market looks like
this. Bond yields on twos and 10s
slightly higher. The 10-year
>> [music]
>> at 4.22. And the Savannah's this
morning, two-sided risk from the Middle
East.
The Fed will have to increasingly
acknowledge the two-sided risk from
this. It's not even clear that that
response would be
>> [music]
>> to be more hawkish
as is being priced in. We really just
don't see a huge amount of pass-through
from this sort of headline inflation
[music] rise, which is really oil
focused, into core inflation. And so we
look we we look to the Fed to to
probably look through this. So here's
the latest this morning. The Federal
Reserve kicking off its two-day meeting
ahead of tomorrow's rate decision as the
war in Iran threatens to pull policy
goals in opposite directions. Joining us
now to discuss this Blake Gwen of RBC
Capital Markets. Blake, good morning.
Morning. I think we all remember the
title of your note about 12 months ago.
It could have been an email. Are you
thinking that we get the same meeting
later this week at the Federal Reserve?
Yeah, I think there's a lot of
similarities. I think that was a meeting
that came very soon after liberation
day. Very much like liberation day, I
think this energy price spike does
represent a supply-related price shock
that does pull the dual mandate in both
directions. I think there's downside
risk around labor, but then you also
have to acknowledge that there's some
upside price risk. So it makes it very
difficult for the Fed. And very much
like that May meeting last year, I think
it's a little too soon for them to
really come down on one side or the
other. So they're not going to lean into
the price side. They're not going to
lean into what this might mean for
demand, for growth, for labor. So I
think we're just not going to learn a
lot from Powell. I think that's our base
case is that he just plays it very close
to the vest. We hear wait and see. We
hear wait, careful. We hear a lot of
words like that. Unfortunately for them,
because of their own communication
apparatus, they have to put out some
forecasts in the SEP. What's curious
about this is that at the January
meeting, the chairman was talking about
a better growth outlook compared to the
December meeting. Where are they going
to be now when they sit around that
table? Well, it's interesting. I think
what we're really looking for is a
little bit of an upgrade to the
inflation forecast just given where core
PCE has come in
you know, since that last meeting. That
makes it a little bit difficult because
that is going to be a bit of a hawkish
message if you see their inflation
forecast going up. At the same time, we
expect their dots not really to change
all that much for them to still show a
cut. So I think that's one way they can
kind of communicate almost a little bit
of a dovish bias because they're saying
yes, there are some, you know, more
upside inflation risks or the outlook
has increased slightly, but we're not
really taking away the the cut that we
have in later this year. There was a
time when saying they when referencing
the Fed made sense. Does it still make
sense given some of the descent that
you're seeing and some of the fissures
on the committee? That's that's a great
call out because I I just used the word
they and and you're totally right. I
think it is hard to talk about them as a
monolith. I mean, I I do think there
have been
um different camps, but I do think that
this year that has started that fissure
has started to pull together a little
bit. Um you know, I I don't think
Waller's probably going to dissent at
this meeting. I think some of the labor
data that we've that we've had even
though that February report was a little
bit um softer. Uh we had the strong
report in January and I think even just
the amount of time having passed we it
does become somewhat clear that we're
not seeing some kind of non-linear
deterioration. And I think that's
really, you know, if you go back to
August of last year, they were were
really worried about this kind of stall
speed uh concept. So, I think the dovish
side was worried this is just the start
of, you know, it's it's going to start
the unemployment rate's going to start
ramping up. That clearly didn't really
happen. So, even though we got that poor
report in November, it does look like
it's kind of chopping sideways. So, I
think that dovish side is starting to
collapse a little bit with the with the
center. So, if it could be an email,
would it just say things are balanced,
we've got people on both sides, but we
probably are going to stay where we are,
and Jerome Powell's not going to talk
about whether he's going to stay on
after his term is up? I think both sides
um and we need to see how this stuff's
going to play out. We just need to know
more about how um you know, this war's
going to play out, what the impacts of
that are going to be, not just on the
inflation side, but is there going to be
demand destruction? Is this, you know,
is paying higher gas prices, is
potentially paying higher food prices,
is that going to start to drag on
consumers and businesses that are
already a bit stretched, and they just
don't know that yet. Do you think
Powell's going to get into what happens
on May 15th if Kevin Warsh is not
confirmed? I don't think he's going to.
Um I I you know, he's been pretty
evasive of those questions in the press
conference. I mean obviously he released
that statement that was
that video statement where you know
that's probably the most we've heard
from him on that front but in the press
conferences he's usually pretty evasive
on that. We did learn a little bit in
the court documents that it does look
like perhaps there's some plan to stay
on and if
you know we have this process frozen up
because Tillis has said that he will not
move that forward as long as the
subpoenas still stand. It does look like
they're challenging those in court.
So maybe Powell just continues until
these subpoenas go away until they allow
the confirmation of Warsch to go
through. Maybe Powell's our chair for
the time being. I think he's just got to
ask a direct question. Don't dress it up
in the politics. Is this your
penultimate meeting or not?
Some point he's got to ask that answer
that and we're getting closer and closer
to his final meeting.
>> Yeah, increasingly he's probably going
to say look I'm here right now and I'm
not going to talk about that but at this
point a lot of people are wanting to
know and how much is Tillis almost
giving him a green light to stay on.
>> Also take Powell out of it. Take the
personal out of it. What happens if a
Fed chair is not confirmed and the
current Fed chair's term is up. Take his
name out of it. Take Kevin Warsch out of
it. Just go through the process for us
Mr. Chairman. Okay, I will. You know I'm
not going to speculate because those
[laughter] things are out of my terrain.
>> really though.
>> on the economy and doing the job for the
American people which is to balance dual
risks that potentially could hit the
economy.
>> planning part of the job? Yes. It's not
my succession.
>> Send us in. Me and Lisa want to go ask
questions [laughter] at this press
conference.
>> feeling that there's going to be a whole
bunch of deflect and defer. Like 20
seconds guy. There was something
interesting in the minutes which is that
they do approve the FOMC chair. So the
FOMC votes on the chair. They approved
Powell for a whole year in in the the
minutes of January. So presumably if
nobody's there to replace him he serves
the rest of the year. Blake Gwyn to say
yeah. Thank you sir. I'm not sure what
the president would think about that but
stay tuned. Blake Gwyn there of RBC
Capital Markets. Up next on the program
Alex of Barclays, Bob McNally of Rapid
and Energy, Jonathan Pingle of UBS from
New York City. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
When it comes to Iran, you really just
don't see this having a big impact on
Fed policy at this point.
>> They do not want to hike in a period
where uh growth dynamics were uh
deteriorating. The challenge is going to
be this push and pull between potential
for a lower growth and potential for
higher inflation. No central bank is
going to be hiking into [music] this. If
this gets worse than people uh
anticipate, we should be talking about
more cuts, not less cuts. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with [music]
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And the price action as it goes look
like this. Equity futures on the S&P
pulling back by just a tenth of 1% on
the S&P 500 following a bounce
yesterday, which followed a four-day
slide. If you see that move, you can
guess this move. Crude, WTI and Brent
advancing slightly this morning. 103 on
Brent, 96 on WTI up by close to 3%.
>> have right now Iran attacking
infrastructure, a gas field in Qatar and
the United Arab Emirates, other uh oil
fields in Iraq. And it raises the
question of how long this is going to go
on. And are we breaching the amount of
time where suddenly people have to price
in a higher risk of long-term
disruption. We're looking forward curves
in the oil market. They're creeping
higher. So, at what point does it start
hitting growth estimates? And at [music]
what point does it start more materially
affecting uh your risk appetite?
>> up this morning to further headlines of
strikes on energy infrastructure across
the Middle East. and a notable headline
crossing on a blimp or terminal just a
few hours ago. The Israelis indicating
[music] that they've eliminated the
security chief in Iran. That's a major
headline as they pursue their goals in
this war. Absolutely. Ali Larjani is an
individual that is really part of this
security complex. Also an individual
that the United States sanctioned in
January because of the horrific
crackdown of the Iranian protesters.
I've been speaking to Norman Roll
offline, former head of intelligence of
the Iranian death. He says it reshuffles
the deck. Obviously this needs to be
confirmed by the US.
>> [music]
>> Denies the leadership cohesion. What to
watch for will be signs of regime
entropy. So [music] really also when the
president speaks about this, I think
he's going to reiterate what he said
yesterday which was not [music] really
sure who we're dealing with right now in
Tehran. And that could be a problem or a
solution. We don't know. That's how
confusing things are at the moment.
[music] For the Federal Reserve equally
as confusing as they look at their
mandate of inflation, price stability
and full employment. The Federal Reserve
getting together a little bit later this
morning. That two-day meeting commences.
That decision is on Wednesday. A whole
host of central bank decisions through
the week. On Thursday the BOE, the ECB
and the BOJ. I'm actually more [music]
interested in the ECB and the Bank of
England and Federal Reserve and I don't
think I've said that very often if ever
because usually it's watching paint dry
with a lot of rhetoric that doesn't
really move the needle. But over with
the ECB and Bank of England, there are
now price hikes rate hikes being [music]
priced into the forward curve which
really puts them in a hot seat given
that you also have a much more
significant hit to growth in that
region. How do they navigate that? How
do they navigate fragmentation in the
region? In the United States they can
remain on hold and mumble jumble about
dual [music] mandate and go home. It's a
little bit different over in Europe.
>> My bar for the ECB is somewhat down
there. I can't quite see it. It's very
very low for news conference of the
[music] ECB. I'll say this about central
banks. When they have big moments like
this, they're actually very very slow to
react. And then when it's very very
obvious they go all in and as fast as
they can. And I would remember the
pandemic, we all remember that famous
line that came from Christine Lagarde,
the ECB president, "We're not here to
close spreads." What did they do a week
later?
They closed spreads pretty quickly. So,
this is why I'm actually curious to see
whether they see this more as an
inflationary shock, or whether they do
address the growth shock aspect and
speak to a disinflationary [music]
future beyond what we're seeing right
now. Because right now in the US, people
are starting to come around to that view
more than some sort of prolonged
inflationary shock.
>> Need to talk about some single names as
well. Delta Airlines in the pre-market
up nicely by more than 3%. [music] An
update from the company moments ago.
It is a raise to the outlook, a lift to
the outlook, and I think that's key at a
difficult time. [music] Yeah, they say
that they now expect high single-digit
revenue growth for the first quarter.
That's up from 5 to 7% at a time when
they are crimped by both TSA lines, by
both international travel being
potentially disrupted by the Middle
East, and by oil prices that are about a
third of the total cost. Of course, they
have exposure to refineries, which can
offset that. And they do say they
maintain
the ability to adjust capacity to meet
[music] some of the higher oil prices.
Does this mean they're going to take
some planes offline, and really
consolidate everybody on the same tube
as much as possible?
>> that across the industry at the moment,
aren't we? And they're certainly
leading, that's for sure. Some updates
from the airlines throughout this
morning. Equity futures on the S&P next
session highs down just a tenth of 1%
coming up this hour. We'll catch up with
Alex
>> [music]
>> of Barclays as the equity rally stores.
Bob McNally of Rapidan Energy as Iran
squeezes energy flows through Hormuz.
And Jonathan Pingle joins us of UBS as
the Fed feels the pressure of the war.
We begin this hour with our top story,
Iran intensifying attacks on critical
energy sites across the Middle East, and
taking a hit of their own. We'll have
Abusetri join us from Dubai for the
latest. Good morning, Jabari. Let's get
the latest on that strike. Not of the
Iranians, but of the Israelis in the
update that came from them a few hours
ago.
Yeah, so lots of developments to get
through. John, I would say the main one
that has occurred in the last hour or so
was the Israeli defense minister
announcing that they had successfully
killed Ali Larijani. That is the chief
of the National Supreme Council.
Very authoritative figure, very close to
Mojtaba Khamenei and his father. Part of
that inner circle. He was a former
commander of the IRGC and he was seen
patrolling the streets of Tehran on
Friday at this pro-government
demonstration. He's been very active on
Twitter on X I should say throughout the
course of this war. So a significant
assassination if indeed it is confirmed
by Iran. We're waiting for confirmation.
And the Israeli defense minister also
saying that they through another
operation also eliminated the key figure
behind the Basij. This is a paramilitary
force also responsible for some of those
very brutal crackdowns against the
demonstrators that we've seen over the
past few years. And of course the most
recent incident being back in January.
So this would be two very prominent
assassinations. What I would say though
is that you know in the past hour or so
people have said that this could have
been one avenue for a diplomatic
off-ramp and namely because Ali Larijani
was involved in some of those nuclear
discussions prior to the war started.
The question from here onwards is who is
going to be responsible for a potential
off-ramp if indeed the diplomatic
channel is re-ignited. For the time
being though I will say Iran continues
to lash out especially at its Gulf
neighbors here in the UAE. Another
challenging night. Residents here
received multiple missile alerts on our
phones throughout the course of the
night. Airspace was closed for a couple
of hours and then of course we found out
throughout in the morning that they had
targeted more energy infrastructure
sites including that Shah gas field
which is in a remote part of the UAE but
accounts for about 20% of the UAE's gas
production. About 5% of the global
supply of sulfur,
uh more strikes attempted strikes at the
Fujairah, that key strategic port that
we spoke about in the Gulf of Oman, not
even on the straits. And then more
attempted strikes on those eastern
fields in Saudi Arabia and in Iraq as
well. So, they have branched out in
terms of the targets. Uh the
interception rate, I I should say, is
still very, very high. But, the point is
that Iran clearly, over the last couple
of days, has stepped it up with their
efforts to target key logistics,
infrastructure, and energy sites across
the Gulf. I can't imagine how tense
things are in your region. So, thank you
for making time for us this morning. Do
you mind if I set you there, leading our
coverage of this war out of Dubai?
Yesterday, Brent crude down by almost
3%. Still closed above 100 for a third
consecutive session. Tracking the
traffic through the Strait of Hormuz,
just a handful of tankers getting
through. Very, very dependent on the
flag that's on that vessel. Absolutely.
So, you saw a Pakistani uh tanker get
through. Obviously, Chinese and Iranian
ships are getting through. Some Indian
vessels have been able to get get
through. What this shows is that the
strait is actually not closed. It's
controlled by the regime. And if you're
having conversations with the regime,
you're able to get your cargo through.
Brent crude 103 so far this morning.
Here's the view on Wall Street. Alex
Almon of Barclays writing this,
"Investors should be mindful of the
one-sided debate around Iran.
Systematically betting against President
Trump has generally been a high-risk,
low-reward strategy." Alex joins us now
for more. Alex, good morning. Good to
see you. Is that true of this incident
as well?
I think that it's important to take a
balanced view. And that was the point of
that message in that email was that if
you go out and talk to the investment
community right now, it's such a
lopsided debate. You would almost think
it was borderline Iranian propaganda.
And it the the the the narrative is is
there's no way the administration get
out of this hole.
Uh we've painted ourselves into the
corner here and along those lines. And I
just think that we need to take a more
balanced view. This is that
the president has shown in the past
multiple times his ability to wrong foot
markets, to wrong foot whatever the
consensus narrative is, obviously most
recently with liberation day. And
especially when positioning has actually
moved quite aggressively neutralized now
in US risk especially.
We should just be prepared for a
slightly more balanced debate. The
pushback to that is when you talk to oil
strategists, they're not talking about
President Trump. They're talking about
just the actual barrels that are
available and not transporting and just
how big the deficit is becoming. How do
you brush off the fear that you're
seeing in the physical crude market,
which is it's pricing in at much higher
price than we're seeing in futures, as
well as some of the commentary coming
from some of the CEOs of big oil
companies?
Well, look. I mean, I think you've got
to take into account the fact that look,
the physical market I'm not going to be
able to sort of be a bit expert on or
defer to other individuals on that. But
what I will say is that remember,
there's been a lot of experts that were
pricing in or saying that oil was going
to go to $40 a barrel.
And then those same experts were saying
that potentially the Strait of Hormuz
wouldn't close. And now all of a sudden
that they've got they've got a lot of
individuals that are talking about every
$10 a barrel or every million dollars a
barrel that's taken off is equivalent to
$10 increase in price. And yet actually,
it's been about half that number so far.
Now, why is that? So, I think we just
need again, I'm just trying to basically
bring back a little bit more balance to
the debate, right?
>> where you're going. You're trying to
identify some asymmetric opportunity. I
hear that.
But the problem is this is not April
4th. On April 4th, we dropped 5% then
almost 6% on the S&P 500. We're only
4-5% away from all-time highs on the
S&P. Is that dislocation actually opened
up yet?
I would say that parts of the market
have. So, you got to remember the market
was pretty well hedged going into this
from the fast money community. That's
not universally true. Look at like for
example, CTAs, they were pretty long
rest of world equities. And again, if we
just look at the S&P, then I think it's
only one dynamic. We look at Korean
equities. Look what happened in Europe.
Europe was outperforming US equities by
7% going into this. It's now effectively
wiped that out. So, it's significant
underperformance from any region that
was a net energy importer. So, we have
to sort of look a little bit more
holistically. But, you're right. There
is still a body of equity risk in the US
that if they sold, it would be a serious
problem. Number one, obviously retail.
We're in that tax window right now where
retail are notoriously going to buy less
equities because they've got bills to
pay next month. Um and then also vol
control. Vol control exposures over two
US equity risk is still, I'd say, in
line with the long-term average. So,
there's room for them to go materially
lower. But, that will require a
significant vol shock beyond here. And
so, that's something that you've got to
consider. What could drive that from
there? You have seen a significant vol
shock when it comes to certain emerging
markets, when it comes to the rest of
the world. And this is sort of turning
everything on its head from the first
couple of months of the year when
everyone was saying sell America, go and
diversify
to the outside. Is this a tipping point
where people come back to the US? Or are
you going to move counter to that? Do
you think that all of this is overblown
in terms of the hit to growth globally?
I think Look, I I think trying to
forecast the path of this of this Middle
East conflict is incredibly difficult.
It's fraught with difficulty. But, what
I will say is is that it once again
highlights US exceptionalism in
different formats. So, remember all
those dollar flows that were going to
rest of world, they're all net energy
importers, whether it's Europe, Korea,
Japan. You know, these are the three
biggest regions. The US big net energy
exporter. So, it's yet another reason on
top of the fact that we've had a
significant domestic derating of the
equity market. On top of the fact we've
still got corporate exceptionalism that
hasn't gone away. On top of the fact
we're dealing with a capex cycle for
hyperscalers, some of the best companies
in the world. And I think a lot of
people kind of lost sight of that in
favor of foreign equities. And I think
that yes, that I think this does bring
back home another reason why actually
the domestic equity market may be
slightly safer in a port of storm, in a
port for a port than than than other
other other of the world. Alex, you're
very constructive on the president and
his ability potentially to see the
thresholds and the pain thresholds in
the market and act. And he did that in
liberation day. But what happens when
you have a massive question mark on the
other side? The president said yesterday
it takes two to tango. We're talking
about a regime that are not rational
actors. And right now, they're going to
have to come out and at least show a bit
of sign of force because we are
absolutely decimating their top brass.
And so I think that the uh the the key
point that I think about again, first of
all, balance is trying to look think
about the two-way debate and not to not
to in any way uh go against what you're
saying. I think that those risks are
real. Um I'll just highlight that the
keyword is is regime. And if the regime
wants to survive, then it is at some
point going to have to negotiate. And I
think that's what a lot of people at the
present have lost sight of because if
you do start going down the threats of
destroying civilian infrastructure, that
that effectively is the regime gone. So
it I'm working off the basic premise
that if that regime doesn't in any way,
shape, or form want to exist a year, two
years, five years from now, then they
will actually have to some point step up
to a negotiation.
>> if the damage is done? Lisa was talking
about physical barrels. If you look at
where Omani crude is and Dubai crude is
right now, they are closing at $55
premium to Brent. Those are physical
assets and cargo. You see diesel today
$5 a gallon. That's freight. That's our
food, how we get our food to our table.
At some point, how long can this last
where you start to think potentially
this is going to have a bigger impact?
>> Look, again, I think that trying to
determine the path of war is incredibly
difficult. Diesel $5, you make a great
point there. It reinforces actually the
lack of sensitivity from a US specific
perspective. As a case in point, every
10% increase in diesel prices
domestically only affects the food
basket by roundabout 50 basis points in
terms of the the price increase. And
even that, based upon some some
analysis, will probably take about 12 to
15 months to feed through. So from a
domestic economy perspective, we're I'd
say a little bit more insulated from
this. And of course, if it goes on for a
long period of time, yes, then of course
all bets are off and we would probably
expect a significantly lower move in
risk assets. But, I would just sort of
highlight one final point, which is the
sensitivity of risk assets to these
moves in oil prices are also decreasing.
So, and I think we've got to it's it's
as much about the velocity of the move
in oil as it is about the level. And I I
think this is an important point here.
Between 2011 and 2014, the US economy
averaged $95 WTI. Averaged.
And during that time, stock market went
up and the US US economy was okay.
Right? So, the velocity of the move I
think is what really surprised people.
So, if that velocity begins to
decelerate and we're just this is our
new baseline more or less, then I
actually think it's something that we
can become desensitized to.
>> A constructive view from Alex of
Barclays this morning. He's sticking
with us. The equity market's doing okay.
Stand by not even 2/10 of 1% with an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Yohai
Haramati has more. Hey, Yohai. Hi, John.
President Donald Trump continuing to ask
other [music] nations to help secure the
Strait of Hormuz. The president voicing
frustration with countries that have
have been publicly noncommittal [music]
about helping ensure vessels can safely
pass through the key waterway. He has
called out NATO and others for failing
[music] to act.
Meanwhile, we are seeing shares of Delta
rising more than 4% in the pre-market.
[music] The company issuing a more
optimistic sales target for the first
quarter after bookings accelerated
[music] into March. The outlook showing
the carrier's resilience in the face of
higher jet fuel costs.
And Bank of America releasing its
monthly [music] fund manager survey for
March finding sentiment has begun to
turn bearish after months of near peak
optimism. The war in Iran and concerns
around froth and private credit [music]
have begun to weigh on investors
overtaking AI bubble concerns as the
biggest tail risks. Rate cut hopes now
sitting at their lowest level since
early 2023, but so far [music] no one is
pricing in a recession. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Yeah, just to
pick up on that last line, I think it's
so important. Yeah, Haris, thank you.
Lisa mentioned this earlier on the
macro. Global growth optimism has
slumped to a net [music] 7% from 39% on
inflation expectations have jumped to
net 45% from 9%. Rate cut optimism
[music] is the lowest since February
2023, but and this is the key part, no
one is pricing in recession. The
probability [music] of a hard landing is
just 5%. This is not full bear. This is
a people who want to be bearish [music]
sort of because they know it's the
prudent thing to do, but are still
fundamentally bullish, which is the
reason why they're hoarding cash. Is it
because they're scared or is it because
they want to buy when the all clear is
sounded? [music] And ultimately, a lot
of people are preparing for the latter.
>> Lining up to buy. We'll talk about that
in a moment. Up next on the program,
sidelining the China summit.
We're speaking to China. I'd love to,
but because of the war, I wouldn't be
here. So, we've requested that we delay
it a month or so and and I'm looking
forward to being with them. We have a
very good relationship. Up next, we'll
catch up with Bloomberg's Taylor Kendal
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. [music]
Equity futures stand by not even two
tenths of 1% on the S&P 500. [music]
Just a little bit of weight to the tape
as TK would say. On the Russell, the
small caps are down by 0.4. In the
commodity market, Brent and WTI, [music]
Brent crude higher by about 3% this
morning. 103 on Brent, WTI at 96. On the
Savannah this morning, sidelining the
China summit.
I don't know. We're working on that
right now.
I We're speaking to China. I'd love to,
but because of the war, I want to be
here. I have to be here, I feel.
Um and
so we've requested that we delay it a
month or so and and I'm looking forward
to being with him. We have a very good
relationship. So here's the latest this
morning. The president looking to delay
his meeting in Beijing with China's Xi
Jinping as the Iran war upends his
foreign policy agenda. With the latest
in Washington, Tal Keinan has more. Hi,
Tal.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, as you
heard, President Trump is requesting to
delay this meeting by a month or so in
his words as a person familiar with the
matter tells Bloomberg News that China
is willing to grant the request for a
delay given in part that there was
considered to be a short preparation
period ahead of this visit and amid, of
course, uncertainties with the war. Now,
we heard President Trump saying that
this decision came solely because he is
needed here in Washington to oversee
military operations despite previously
signaling that he could request a delay
if China does not send assets to help
secure the Strait of Hormuz. In fact,
China has been at the focus of a lot of
the president's pressure when it comes
to the strait.
Tal, that's a good time to throw back.
Tal Keinan there with the latest from
the White House. Just can't get a break
outside the White House, can you? Her
timing nailed it though. Yeah, but
they're always this time, 5:00 to 8:00,
9:00 a.m. The workers are always out
there making sure it looks pristine. So
it's always a challenge.
>> Leaf blowers start to come out as well.
Yeah, I get it.
>> That'll be next. Alex Al-Awneh of
Barclays still with us around the table.
Alex, this is from Jonathan Krinsky of
BTIG. You're sounding constructive. This
is the bad view, okay? Perhaps the real
pain trade would be if we get a deal and
we get a rally off the back of the deal,
but that gets sold. The weakness we're
seeing started well before the
geopolitical escalation. So why would
resolution there fix all the damage
that's being done?
Well, he's
I know Jonathan and he's he's right in a
sense that I think if I was to sort of
parlay his words into what are we be
talking about? We we be talking about
private credit? Should we be talking
about AI disruption? Remember those nice
narratives we were talking about before
before the Iranian war war kicked off.
And yet those aren't going away.
However, I would say they're much more
focused topics than than something
that's a catch-all that is as big and
and as as as as problematic as as the
Iranian war. That said, Morgan Stanley
came out with a report saying that you
could see 8% default rate among private
loans if you do see the software
disruption really take hold because of
the structure of some of these loans. Is
the market being overly complacent in
the face of some of those risks just
because they're distracted with what's
going on in the Middle East?
Well, look, from the conversations we
have, I would actually say that private
credit is something that investors
really want to talk about. They That's
what they wanted that the topic that's
really
at the center of the debate.
Are they complacent? I would say no. I
mean, look at some of the alternative
asset managers. I mean, these these
these names have been cut in half
essentially. They're down
They're between down down between 35%
and 50%. So, no. Has it spread to the
broader market? Well, to a degree, yes.
Obviously, high yield spreads have moved
out 350, 375 on whatnot. Is that showing
you complete panic? No. I mean, you
could easily see them 100 basis points
wider than that. I mean, ultimately,
high yield is a 300 basis point to 700
basis point kind of spread range asset.
And we're still towards the tights of
that. So, there is a degree of
complacency. I would say that the
counterpoint to that is is that trying
to understand what innings we're in on a
private credit unraveling
is incredibly difficult. What I What I
would add on top of that is is that not
all private credit is is bad and not all
bad credit is private. And you I think
there's a lot of a lot of co-
ultimately, private credit, public
credit, they're all credits at the end
of the day. And I don't think you should
necessarily disaggregate them from one
another. And ultimately, are we going to
have a credit cycle at some point in the
future? Yes, we probably will. That's
just an
of the way the world works. But, does
that necessarily mean that it's all doom
and gloom? And again, I just want to
take a more balanced view. And the
reason I want to take a balanced view is
simply because the world or the US
economy is sitting on the lowest private
debt to GDP in the past 25 years. The
banks are the best capitalized they've
been in a very long time and they're
having been under regulatory thumb
basically ever since the GFC. We've got
7-8 trillion dollars of money market
funds. We are in as an economy a good
better place to handle a credit cycle
than we were at any point for the past
two decades. And that's Let's to the
conclusion, Alex. Trade for the brave.
Are you saying there's a buying
opportunity here? I
I I I still think there is a buying
opportunity in risk right now. Yes. In
the banks and in the private credit
players? So, if if if push came to
shove, do I think that again, I'm not
going to get into individual names, but
do I think if push comes to shove in
certain of these alternative asset
managers that they they will still
exist, will they still be generating
fee-related income a year, two year,
five years from now? I think the answer
is yes. Do I think you could see a
multi-percentage point impairment to
their assets? Yes, but ultimately
they've de-rated spectacularly. And just
a point sort of a a line that you could
you guys can work with is that if you go
back since 1990, financials [music] have
only ever sold off as a group 50% more
than once, more than 50% once. [music]
And that was in the GFC. Right now,
those alts are down basically 40 to
40-50%. We'll run with that line this
morning. It's good to see you, buddy.
Good [music] to see you.
>> Thank you for dropping by. Alex Altman
there of Barclays. Up next, Bob McNally
of Rapidan Energy. Yes, Brent holds
above $100 a barrel from New York City.
>> [music]
>> You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Stocks just a little bit softer. We're
down a tenth of 1% on the [music] S&P
and the Nasdaq down by 0.2, down by 0.3
on smalls. This from Mike Wilson and
Morgan Stanley to start the week
constructive. Why is that constructive?
6 to [music] 12-month view still intact.
The answer, the main reason is the
earnings acceleration is continuing
[music] and that the current setup looks
very different from the prior late cycle
periods when oil spike ended the
business cycle. That's [music] the
latest from Morgan Stanley this morning.
Here's the crude spike. A rally
continues this morning. Brent and WTI,
Brent crude up by [music] 3% 103, WTI up
by 3% also at 96. Unlocking this in the
bond market, slightly higher yields
through this morning, now lower, turning
lower by [music] almost a basis point
421, but the move we've seen over the
past few weeks, 30 basis points plus at
the front and long end of the curve on
twos and tens. What does it mean for the
Federal Reserve? This from Neil Dutta
over at RenMac.
>> [music]
>> It's much easier to see the Fed revising
up core inflation than changing the
unemployment rate outlook materially.
And here's the punchline. I think it is
more likely that [music] a cut is erased
altogether in the outlook. Right now
we're seeing markets flirt with that
idea. If you get that kind of hawkish
pushback to markets that are still
optimistic about one rate cut, do you
have some really fierce rhetoric on the
other side? Again, this committee is
split. This is not going to be one
>> [music]
>> decision that's coming out. You're going
to hear a couple of different points of
view. So again, how much guidance can
they give at a time when events are
moving fast, when the economy [music]
is unclear, and when the personnel at
the top of the Fed are going to be
shifting around?
>> Fed decision tomorrow. Are they going to
be shifting around? We'll find out.
We'll try and get some clarity [music]
from Powell. Yeah. Chair Powell forever
at this point, right? He's got to answer
some questions about that. I'm sorry.
>> Well, you know, maybe we'll find out. On
a printer.
>> Penultimate meeting or not, when do you
leave?
Haven't you got some plans to make?
I'm guessing we're probably not going to
find out, but I'm hoping that people
press him on that because frankly a lot
of people are trying to figure out that
[music] answer.
>> Neil Dutta of RenMac who I mentioned a
bit earlier is going to join us tomorrow
in anticipation of that news conference
and decision tomorrow afternoon. Two
hours away from the opening bell. Let's
get some morning movers. Danny has more.
Hey Danny. Hey John, some airline
earnings this morning. Delta out with a
better forecast for the first quarter
seeing revenue up 7 to 9%. That was
previously the 7% was a high
range of its previous end. There's still
demand and they're able to weather some
of the literal weather issues for them.
They've seen less capacity [music]
because of the weather winter weather.
JetBlue same sort of story better demand
but they are seeing higher costs as of
are all these airlines because of higher
fuel prices. Delta for example has been
down 7% since the start of the war that
rebounds more [music] than 5% this
morning. Speaking of the war just some
of the stocks moving as we tend to see
as the intensity of the war picks up.
The fertilizer company CF industry
Mosaic are on the up this morning 1.4%
1% the underlying fertilizer chemicals
themselves urea has seen a sharp price
spike higher because about half of that
product flows through [music] the Strait
of Hormuz. Now relatedly we've also seen
an increase in attacks on oil
infrastructure [music] including a
suspension of operations at a UAE
natural gas facility. So some of the
energy providers which we should have in
a moment but if not they are moving
higher. Occidental being one of them
interestingly it that UAE field is a JV
with them but all of these American ones
moving higher Devon energy Sable
Occidental all up at least one and a
third percent John. Danny thank you.
Thanks for the update. More from Danny
in the next hour. Incidentally Neil
Dutta of RenMac just wrote in
on the outlook of the Federal Reserve.
So he's [music] saying there'll be no
cuts in the SEP when we get the
projections from the Fed no cuts implied
in those forecasts for 2026. He said the
RBA just hiked they all think the same
way central bankers. Well this to me is
a real question for the ECB. Are they
going to make the same [music] mistake?
The Fed has more leeway to make that
mistake because no cuts is different
than hiking rates. That [music] is a
very different expectation. There's a
feeling you need to fight the
inflationary shock long term it always
is potentially a hit to growth. The bond
market starting to price that in. Does
the Central Bank rhetoric start to match
with it?
>> Change week for Central Banks coming up.
Federal Reserve, of course, tomorrow.
Then on Thursday, BOJ, [music]
ECB, BOE. And Iran rate out this
morning, Iran stepping up attacks on
energy infrastructure around the Persian
Gulf, setting a massive gas field on
fire in the UAE. The overnight strikes
also targeting an Iraqi oil field and
key Emirati port. Also, the president
reiterating his call for other countries
to help secure the Strait of Hormuz.
We strongly encourage other nations
whose economies depend on the strait far
more than ours.
You know, we get less than 1% of our oil
from the strait.
And
some countries get much more. So, we
want them to come and help us with the
strait. US allies in Europe and Asia
hesitant to send ships to Hormuz,
expressing unease about getting pulled
into the war. And the president claiming
he can do anything he wants with Cuba as
a US imposed oil blockade causes a total
power blackout on the island.
You know what? My life I've been hearing
about the United States and Cuba.
And when will the United States do it?
I do believe I'll be the honor of having
the honor of
taking Cuba.
That'd be good honor. That's a big
honor. Taking Cuba. Taking Cuba in some
form, yeah.
Trump previously saying he will finish
the war with Iran before turning his
attention to Cuba. The wording that very
interesting, taking Cuba. It's almost
like, and I think that what started that
conversation was Peter Doocy asked, is
this going to be like Iran when it comes
to Cuba? Is it going to be like
Venezuela? And he said, I can't tell you
that, but they're a failed nation. But
already the administration is making it
incredibly difficult for the communist
regime in Cuba. They've cut off fuel
imports coming from Venezuela which for
months, which is why they have
continuous blackouts. A key report
yesterday from the New York Times, as we
see these negotiations take place, the
Trump administration is basically saying
the president cannot exist in Cuba. They
have signaled to Cuban negotiators that
the president must go, but are leaving
the next step to the Cubans. So, it
feels like the Venezuela situation, but
potentially leaving it a little bit more
in the Cuban hands.
>> You can forgive traders for feeling a
bit numb because ultimately it's
Venezuela, then it's Iran, now it's
Cuba, and ultimately people are focused
on private credit and other things
because how do you analyze or get an
edge on this? And ultimately, I don't
think I have an answer for that.
>> I'm not sure anyone has an answer to
that this point, which is why a lot of
people chose to ignore it.
>> And I think at this point people are
turning uncomfortably numb with all of
the potential headlines.
>> What do we always say that Rick Reed
line? You can only focus on the shark
closest to the boat.
There's tons of sharks off in the waters
at the moment. And none of them are
predictable, and none of them are really
visible. I mean, ultimately you don't
know the scope of how big that shark is.
You're focused on the private credit
shark, which is right here and
analyzable. Let's get to another shark
closest to the boat right now, Brent
crude. Holding it over $100 a barrel
this morning is down to link it over US
led coalition to protect energy flows
through the Strait of Hormuz. Bob
McNally of Rapidan Energy predicting
disruptions will last a few more weeks
right in this. It appears that our
30-day worst-case Hormuz disruption
scenario model last June may have been
overly optimistic. Bob joins us now for
more. Bob, welcome to the program.
Speaking of optimism, there are a number
of tankers that got through the strait
yesterday. I think that provided some
people in this market some comfort.
Could you give us some perspective on
that?
Hey John, I think you're right. You
know, we also saw traders are probably
hedging the beginning of the SPR draw in
the United States. Uh the president
called for uh escorts and so forth. And
as you noted, the Iranians are letting
out a few hostages. And so,
uh Secretary Benson also made comments
saying this is a good thing, you know,
we're we're supporting it. So, you know,
the market, John, in my view is still
coming to terms with the fact that a
load-bearing assumption in energy is
collapsing.
And that load-bearing assumption is that
the US would permit anybody to strangle
the Hormuz Strait for more than a few
hours to days max. And so I I think
there's still this reservoir of kind of
disbelief and hope that this is going to
be over soon. That this math these the
these disruptions not only for oil other
things as you just noted Danny noted
it's got to stop. And so we took a
breather yesterday uh but it's not
stopping and crude is going to march
higher I'm afraid. Bob, is it a good
thing though? I know you reiterated the
words of the Treasury Secretary.
Basically, the regime is saying this
international waterway is not closed,
it's controlled and it's controlled by
us.
Right Anne-Marie, but they're not going
to let enough oil out to put oil prices
down. What should have been obvious is
Iran would play the only card it had
which was to inflict an oil price
increase and a gas price increase on the
president. It's the only thing it has
left. Its military's gone even since
last June. So, Iran's going to let out a
few tankers just to divide the United
States from other countries and and
curry favor just enough but it is not
going to allow enough out to halt the
upward march in crude and product prices
in my view. Is there a point where the
prices are too high where some of Iran's
backers like China start to put pressure
on the regime?
You know, I think so. I think as we get
closer to that level which we may
discover which is where uh global
economic growth starts to slow because
you can't have global economic growth
without 20% of the energy returning.
Whether that level is 150 160 we don't
know but yes, when we start seeing
shortages too when refiners have to
start dropping runs which we're starting
to see when folks run out of refined
products in Asia jet fuel, that's when
things get serious and China will
increase pressure. We expect so will
other countries.
What's your forecast for full year oil
prices given the fact that when you look
at the forward curve you're looking at
something like $75 a barrel by the end
of this year. Does it seem like that is
an underestimation or an overestimation?
Well, one thing I've learned is the the
futures curve is an awful predictor of
future spot. So we we ignore it entirely
for that. Lisa, um it's it's really
tough. I'll say my my oil analyst
colleagues at Rapid Energy Group we're
we're we're putting together balances
we're updating them here, but you know,
we could be we could be at 30 by the end
of the year. If we have to go to 150 or
but booms tend to be followed by busts.
So I 70 is as good as any other price at
the end of the year. It's widely
uncertain as you guys noted with all the
sharks circling almost any price is
imaginable toward the end of the year.
And the higher we go though, I'll say
the lower we're likely to be at the end
of the year. Can you walk us through
what goes into that? Is it demand
destruction or is it people looking for
alternative uses of energy? I'm struck
by Jeff Curry he put out another note
this morning you can't print molecules
talking about all the stockpiling that's
going to take place after this and how
we really never even recovered from the
Houthis and what happened in the Red
Sea. It took a while. Why do you think
that isn't likely and prices could
inflect so much lower?
Well, it's about demand destruction. So
what happens is if you look at all the
major recessions in the last since World
War II
an oil price spike is usually present at
the scene of the crime. They either
caused it or contributed to it because
oil demand if you think about it is
really inelastic. It's not like going to
the movies or you know, buying cigars or
whatever people do.
It is necessary for life, right? If the
pump price is higher you still have to
drive to work. So the only way to get
demand down is to stop the work if you
will. Is to slow economic activity
because oil is embedded in that. So what
happens is oil keeps on rising until it
causes a demand slowdown and then when
that happens demand collapses. It goes
away and the price collapses. We saw
that in 2008. We saw that in other times
and I'm afraid that's what we could be
looking at here if we have to balance
this market by demand destruction at
much higher levels. Bob, I'm really glad
you brought up products. Goldman Sachs
is out with a note saying that the
greater impact will be on products like
jet fuel like on diesel. We saw diesel
hit $5 a gallon, a gallon, north of $5 a
gallon. That is important for freight.
That's important for construction, for
the factories in America. We haven't
seen that since the spike of December
2022. You worked in the White House.
What policy tools do you think this
administration is ready to deploy?
Well, we've seen the policy tools more
or less deployed already. Um,
they're looking at a Jones Act waiver
which helps because now the East Coast
of the United States can bring in a
little more product from the Gulf Coast
at lower price. That was a good step.
Uh,
there are a few other things they can
ease RVP or kind of volatility waivers,
regulations on gasoline to make it a
little easier to make gasoline this
summer a little more cheaply. So there
are nips and tucks they can do around
the edges, but they're really marginal
Anne-Marie. I think there's really
nothing they can do. The only major
things now I think on the table would be
big mistakes.
The idea of intervening in in futures or
restricting exports.
I don't think export restrictions are on
the table, but in a panic you can't rule
that out. Futures intervention I know
has been an issue you have been
covering.
Though it right now it's about avoiding
mistakes I think not coming up with
policy solutions to these
especially refined product problems.
Bob, I've got to ask you because you
mentioned it. What would that look like?
Restricting exports because as a
professional like yourself it's
obviously something you don't think
would work, but don't rule it out for a
politician who is probably looking at
other things. But what would that look
like?
May I stroke of the pen, John. I mean, a
president has clear authority there
uh under emergency economic powers. Uh
he could just um
a stroke of the pen say, "We're not
going to export gasoline and diesel
anymore. We're not going to export
crude." Uh he can say we're going to
wait until stocks get to a certain level
or if they get a below a level, we'll
we'll restrict exports. He can do pretty
much whatever he wants with regard to
restricting exports. So, the power is
clear. It would take 2 minutes, stroke
of the pen. It would be an amazing
massive mistake. Um but you can't rule
it out. Again, I hear Listen, I I'm not
I don't think they're looking at it. I I
don't I think they know it's dumb. I
mean, they got elected by partly by
criticizing President Biden for
restricting kind of gas not LNG exports.
So, it's a last it's a last-ditch.
>> Given the bind they've got themselves
in, look, the lesson I've always had
from following politicians, Bob, never
underestimate their ability to do stupid
things. Bob, it's good to see you. Bob
McNally there of Rapid Energy. And Achy,
this from Delta. So, this is important.
We're talking about the energy outlook.
Let's talk about the reality on the
ground. How are consumers interacting
with the economy? Is that changing? Ed
Bastian of Delta Airlines, the CEO,
speaking at a JP Morgan conference just
moments ago after raising their outlook
for the first quarter, saying this,
"We've seen eight out of the 10 highest
sales days in history in the month of
March."
>> Yeah, talking about how it really has
been both the main cabin as well as
premium leisure. Talking about the hedge
on its fuel that it has from the Monroe
refinery. But without that, and I think
that this really highlights the pain
aspect of this well that they're able to
overcome with demand. They saw a $400
million spike in fuel costs in March.
Even with that, they still see profits
on the higher end and above what they
had previously said because of that
demand that you were just talking about.
>> Stock is up by 4% in the premarket.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohara has more. Hey,
Yohara. Hey, John. Brent continuing to
trade above $100 a barrel as Iran
[music] strikes new targets across the
Persian Gulf. The UAE suspending
operations at the Sha natural gas field
due to a fire while a drone attack
temporarily shut the Fujairah port.
Meanwhile, in Iraqi oil fields and a key
Emirati ports were also targeted.
Australia's central bank raising its key
interest rate for a second straight
meeting, stepping up its battle against
inflation as rising energy costs [music]
from the Iran war threaten to intensify
price pressures. The Reserve Bank's
nine-member policy committee [music]
splits five to four in favor of a hike.
The decision reverses two of the three
cuts
>> [music]
>> delivered last year.
And Kraft Heinz is rolling out a range
of healthier products to bolster some of
its lagging brands. The company planning
to unveil a high-protein Kraft [music]
Mac and Cheese, a snack-size version of
Lunchables, and a low-sugar hydration
beverage from Capri Sun. Uh Kraft is
investing a million dollars to offer
shoppers samples of some of its new
products. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John. Yohara, [music] thank you.
Appreciate the update. Why you laughing?
I just think it's really funny the
things that people will buy in order to
not feel as guilty to give their
children. High-protein Mac and Cheese.
>> It's really good for you because it's
got extra protein in it.
>> You're not convinced.
>> I mean, it just speaks to the fact of
the moment. Yeah. Not in my house.
>> I'm guessing it's still probably bright
orange. Not in my house.
>> Totally in mine.
>> [music]
>> Feel them? Absolutely. Here.
>> Extra protein? I mean, look, it's quick.
It makes me feel less guilty, 100% I'm
all Count the Pharaoh. That stuff lasts
[music] for me.
>> Doritos protein rolling out this month
with 10 g of protein per serving.
Doritos, health food.
>> [laughter]
>> Where's RFK? Seriously, this is not
Maha. He's shirtless drinking milk. I'm
next on the program, [music]
navigating Jip and S.
Yeah, it's crazy to me that you see all
these
>> [music]
>> um narratives being written that central
banks are going to tighten into this. If
this gets worse than people anticipate,
[music]
we should be talking about more cuts,
not less cuts down the line. Up next,
we'll catch up with Jonathan Pingle of
UBS, live from New York [music] City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Brent crude this morning up by 3%. What
are 340 on Brent? WTI around 97, 96, 77,
and up by more than 3%. [music] Analysts
are navigating
geopolitical tensions.
It's crazy to me that you see all these
[music]
narratives being written that central
banks are going to tighten into this. I
I think central banks have learned along
the way you don't tighten into energy
shocks.
>> [snorts]
>> I think if anything, you know, if this
gets worse than people anticipate,
[music]
we should be talking about more cuts,
not less cuts down the line. So, here's
the latest this morning. Traders widely
expecting the Federal Reserve to hold
rates steady at tomorrow's meeting as
the war in the Middle East clouds the
economic outlook. Jonathan Pingle of UBS
writing, "We expect Fed chair Jay Powell
to acknowledge the inflation risk from
an energy price shock, but remain
balanced in conveying the risk."
Jonathan joins us now for more.
Jonathan, good morning. Good to see you.
Good to see you. 2:00 p.m. tomorrow
afternoon, how do those forecasts
change?
Oh, well, they're, you know, just
mathematically, they're going to have to
mark up inflation. I think the
you [clears throat] know, I've been um
I think I think I think the risks to
growth are a little sort of two-sided. I
mean, I think there's still a certain
amount of uncertainty as to exactly how
they're thinking through the impact the
oil price shock cuz they don't know the
duration of this shock yet. But, I mean,
obviously, we could see inflation
forecasts getting marked up. You know,
my guess is unemployment rate forecasts
are more likely to get nudged up than
stay the same. But, I think for growth,
you know, they've had so much talk about
this productivity AI miracle. I actually
think this is the SEP where they might
revise up their longer-run assessment.
and that actually, in my view, would
have them keep growth the same. What
would the SEP be for the dot plot for
the 2026 year? The median dot. Are we
pricing out that cut? I don't Well, the
market's certainly trading that way, but
my guess is there's enough participants
still worried about the labor market
that you get a median of one cut this
year. I mean, even before the February
employment report, you know, you had
Mary Daly. I mean, even a many of the
board members using words like
vulnerable and fragile for the labor
market, and then they get handed, you
know, sort of a strike-adjusted minus
60K unemployment rate goes back up to
444. Um I I think And this oil price
shock is another headwind to the labor
market expansion, too. So, I I do think
there's a um
you know,
I can count 10 participants that I think
are going to going to keep a going to
keep a cut. Okay. So, I'm just
wondering, I know that the bingo game
over at UBS is the number of people who
are going to fight for the consensus and
the number of dissents. Where do you put
your chip? Uh we put our chips on three
dissents. Um I think Bowman's a close
call, but I think Governor Waller,
after, you know, his speech on, you
know, what he thought would drive the
rate cut decision for him was the
February employment report, which was, I
think, by all accounts, pretty weak.
Um and I you know, and certainly, you
know, Governor Bowman has not been uh
shy about his views. I'm just wondering
at how much of a role J. Powell has
right now, given the fact that it might
be his
one of his last meetings that he's the
Fed chair for. Big discussion around
whether he will stay on as a governor or
a committee member. A question of what
he chooses to discuss, how politically
he takes this discussion, given that it
actually is a key component into forward
guidance.
Well, I
So, I think at this juncture, where the
committee is and all of the uncertainty,
I I will acknowledge, Lisa, I think
you're right. I think this poses one of
the biggest communication challenges
that he has faced.
Um he doesn't know what's going to
happen. He's just been handed a terrible
employment report. You know, in 2 months
time the employment rate could be 4 6, 4
7, could be 4 3.
You know, oil prices could be 120, they
could be back to 80
or lower. I mean, right? So, so given
the incredible range of outcomes it's
going to be very difficult for him to
provide much guidance, take take much of
a stand. But, I do think that you know,
sort of how he nuances this is going to
be really important for financial
markets because you know, the markets
are certainly trading this like it's a
2022 shock all over again, pricing out
rate cuts. And I'm not quite sure that's
what the majority I think there's enough
concern over growth. The starting point
for the economy is very different than
22. I do think there's enough concern
around the labor market he's going to
want to provide a more balanced message
than that. But, it's it's it's going to
be difficult for him and certainly the
politics are swirling around as as we
were sort of discussing. What you're
painting it sounds like a good time to
retire, but is there an upside for this
administration for J. Powell to actually
stay on?
So, I mean, you know, I have had this
conversation with clients and you know,
you know, once the
it is historically the case that every
administration eventually gets to choose
a majority of the Board of Governors and
their chair, right? And at that point,
you know, it's really a reflection to
some extent this is this is how politics
traditionally influences the Fed through
the appointment of process. And at that
point, you know, it is usually the
administration's committee. Now, there's
always the you know, there's always the
certain amount of central bank
independence, but you know, at at some
point this administration if they do
have their personnel in place, it'll be
much more difficult to blame J. Powell
for monetary policy. Jonathan, that's
one way of putting it. It's good to see
you. Thank you, sir. Jonathan Pingle
there at UBS. Can he avoid the question
tomorrow? On March 18th, maybe. On April
29th, I think it gets a lot harder from
there. You can't keep punting. At some
point you've got to say where you're
going to be next month and what job
you're going to have or not. So, stay
tuned for the Fed decides, which is
going to be, frankly, the bond market's
favorite soap opera, and it does
continue and gets a little bit more
tense with the question about how he
answers that.
>> in the case of this world will be
peppering [music] him with that question
repeatedly, I imagine, in that news
conference. Coming up later, Alicia
Sanders of Charles Schwab, Gil Luria of
D.A. Davidson, Greg Daco of EY
Parthenon, Lisa Hornby of Schroders. All
of that in the next hour, right here on
Bloomberg TV.
Markets are ruthlessly efficient at
exposing what the weaklings [music] are.
Most assets should be able to come back
within a month or two months. Um
if and when the war ends. War has a
momentum of its own. If this only lasts
for, let's say, a month or [music] less,
we will be okay. There will be a
snapback. Longer term, there is still
that diversification story. [music] This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and [music] Anne
Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures right now in the S&P 500
negative by 0.2% down by 0.3 on the
Nasdaq. Muted price [music] action off
the back of this in the commodity
market. Brent and WTI shaping up as
follows. Brent crude north of 103, up by
3% this morning. WTI up by 3.5 to 96.82
[music]
ahead of these events right here. The
Federal Reserve meeting about 24 hours
away. [music] The two-day meeting starts
this morning. It concludes tomorrow
afternoon. Yeah, and there's going to be
a real question about [music] how they
message what ultimately could be a
stagflationary shock at a time when the
economy isn't doing terribly. And this
is something that Alex Altman really
pounded the table on. Look, people want
to be bullish and the reason why is
because the consumer still has money to
spend and they are spending. The Fed has
to face that off with a potential shock
that is has an undetermined ending point
and an undetermined scope and that I
think is going to be difficult to do.
>> And you see that in the numbers coming
out of Delta Airlines this morning, an
update from the executives over there at
Bastion. [music] The CEO saying this
just moments ago, we've seen eight out
of the 10 highest sales days in history
in March. The stock is high by 4%. They
raised the outlook for revenue just
earlier this morning. Yeah, the revenue
now coming in, this is according to the
latest forecast between 15 and 15.3
[music]
billion versus the expectation of 14.7
billion, an upside beat. They're [music]
keeping their profits the same. So, what
does this mean? It means that ultimately
they do see higher gasoline prices,
higher fuel costs [music]
eating into their profits, but staying
the same where they were because guess
what? Consumer demand is so much higher
than they had been expecting because of
that robust both consumer and business
demand. This speaks to the conundrum
[music] that the Fed has to face off
with, this idea that the consumer and
the economy is strong and offsetting
some of the oil shock in terms of price
in terms of the pricing. The latest
[music] latest on Delta Airlines so far
this morning, the latest on the conflict
in the Middle East, more headlines of
any energy infrastructure being targeted
>> [music]
>> and being struck overnight, waiting up
to waking up to that. And waking up to
an important headline from the [music]
Israelis as well, that the security
chief in Iran has been in their words
eliminated, looking for confirmation
[music] from both the Iranian and US
side later this morning.
>> Haven't seen that confirmation yet, but
what the Israelis are saying is that
they were able to take out in this
strike Ali [music] Larijani. And this is
incredibly important when it comes to
decimating how the regime works. What
comes next is going to be a huge
question because not only has the
supreme leader been taken out and we
have yet to see and the [music]
president yesterday cast some doubt on
where actually the new Khamenei is
actually, no one's seen him. He said his
dad used to speak, no one's talking to
him, but Ali Larijani was an important
person in terms of security apparatus
and also a diplomat. That individual
that was talking to the US and part of
these [music] nuclear talks. If you're
in the market right now, you've got one
question. Who's leading the situation,
the war effort in Iran, and does it make
it easier or harder to resolve the
[music] issues through the Strait of
Hormuz? I think that is a question that
we still do not know. At this moment, it
looks like this has not resolved the
issue with the Strait of Hormuz, but one
thing I think it is important, if you
brought this up a number of times, there
have been vessels that [music] have come
through. Chinese vessels, Pakistani
vessels, Indian vessels, but really on
an ad hoc basis, individuals that are
talking [music] to the regime. It's
important to remember that the Strait of
Hormuz is not closed, it is controlled,
which also is not a good look for
Washington.
>> conditional on the flag on your vessel
right now. Those headlines bringing this
market just a little bit of comfort in
[music] the last 24 hours. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Liz Ann
Sonders of Charles Schwab following the
best day for stocks in more than a
month. Go Lori of DA Davidson on
Nvidia's trillion-dollar forecast and
Greg Deck of EY Parthenon looking ahead
to tomorrow's Fed interest rate
decision. We begin this hour with stocks
falling and oil rising as strikes
continue across the Persian Gulf. Liz
Ann Sonders of Charles Schwab writes the
following, "Time is the enemy here, the
enemy here. The longer this drags out,
the more acute pain points become." Liz
Ann joins us now for more. Liz Ann,
welcome to the program at the index
level. Pretty muted moves. We've had a
5% decline that ultimately got bought.
Is that masking the amount of repricing
we're seeing beneath the surface?
It is, John, and there's a number of
ways you can look at it. We've at this
program talked about the average member
drawdown level being much more
significant than the drawdowns we've
seen at the index level. So, in the case
of the S&P 500, you're right, we've only
had about a 6% drawdown
maximum year-to-date, but the average
member has had a 16%
average drawdown. If you look at the
Nasdaq, it's even more extreme. So, the
the Nasdaq's had a little bit more of an
index level drawdown, but at the average
member level, the maximum drawdown is
-29%. Another way to look at it is
there's about 120 or so names that are
trading in a similar band as what the
S&P index is is trading in, that kind
of, you know, 5% up and down band, but
almost the same number of stocks have
moved by up more than 20% or down more
than 20%. So, the tails of that dis-
tribution are larger than they have
been. I think that kind of backdrop is
is likely to continue.
>> So, picking up on some of the
dislocations, people trying to work out
if this is the moment to step in,
particularly around some discretionary
names. We've had headlines from Delta
this morning, American Airlines just
moments ago, guiding higher for revenue.
Liz Ann, is this a moment to step in and
maybe pick up some of the pieces?
I I think at the sector level, I think
it's really difficult environment to
just make a monolithic call, say on
consumer discretionary. I think there's
opportunities within every sector. I
think it's profit margin stability,
profits outlook to your point about some
of the airlines. I think that's really
key in this environment. And that's also
reflected down the cap spectrum. Unlike
last year, this year within the Russell
2000, the profitable stocks are handily
outperforming the unprofitable stocks.
So, I think it's that profitability
angle that is really key. And that's
where you have to go individual stock by
individual stock as opposed to just
making a monolithic sector call. Can you
bleed that stock by stock picking a kind
of approach into whether you're looking
at the equal weight were the tech
universe as really driving any kind of
rally going forward from here? At the
beginning of the year, people were
talking about that broadening out, about
how more stocks outside of tech would
really lead this. Now, you're getting a
reversal of that. How much are you
shifting your view for the rest of 2026?
Uh, not a heck of a lot. I I what's
happening now is some of the uh,
reversion trades that we have seen. I
think that's all about positioning and I
think positioning is really important in
this kind of market backdrop. We all
know, you certainly do reporting on it
every single day, that trying to gauge
what the next announcement is going to
be, whether it is from the
administration about the war,
you know, going back pre-war tariff
related announcements. We're in this
mode of instability right now and trying
to gauge what the trigger points will be
is very difficult, but what we can do is
assess what the positioning backdrop is.
And throughout the course of the last 2
and 1/2 weeks since the outset of the
war, we have seen a change in
positioning. You've seen that de-risking
on the part of the systematic funds, on
the part of the long shore long short
hedge funds. We've seen it in retail in
terms of individual positions, you know,
single stock kind of holdings. Overall,
retail has not really pulled back their
positioning to a significant degree. You
have seen it with the CTAs. So,
positioning is such that we could get a
pretty significant rebound because
you've washed out some of that
positioning.
We can think of the market backdrop as
being able to get assessed via the
positioning. That goes back to early
April last year. Trying to gauge these
tariff related announcements was
difficult, but if you looked at
positioning, you could see where both
the pain trade is likely to be and maybe
where there's upside if you get even a
modicum of better news. And Liz, and
just to sort of build on that, we saw
that from the fund manager survey from
Bank of America today that the cash
build increased the most going back to
the pandemic from February to March. Are
you getting more constructive right now?
So, the cash build is an interesting
one. If you look at the 7 or 8 trillion
dollars that's in money market funds,
that is a record high level. I think one
of the errors though is looking at a
number like that in a level sense and in
an absolute sense without putting it in
the context of the overall
capitalization of the stock market. I
haven't run the numbers very recently,
but when we were at about $7 trillion
uh not all that long ago, it still only
represented about I think it was 12 or
13% of total stock market
capitalization, which is historically
very low. So, if we think about sort of
cash on the sideline so to speak, and I
don't love that terminology, it it it we
have to look at it relative to the
overall cap in the stock market, because
that's how you measure is that fuel that
if it decides to, you know, shift its
attention more to the equity market, how
powerful is that fuel? It's less
powerful when you're talking about a
fairly low uh share of total equity
market capitalization. Lizanne, you
mentioned catalysts. This year, right
now, the focus is squarely on what's
going on in the Middle East and the war
with Iran. Last year it was
tariff-induced headlines that
potentially moved the market. Can you
position a portfolio in the Trump era
that ignores Washington?
Uh no, you can't, but you can also it
it's also impossible to gauge what those
next triggers are going to be, which is
why I think you have to focus more on
the positioning. I think we've never
seen a greater connectivity and and, you
know, short-term volatility being driven
by decisions coming out of Washington.
There's more typical It's typically
there's more of a disconnect between
those two. You don't have to kind of
draw that dividing line as as closely as
you do now, but trying to anticipate it
given how unstable policy making has
been, and just the manner with which
policies get announced, is a much
trickier backdrop uh certainly for
longer-term investors, but also for
traders. Lizanne, always good to see
you. Thanks for dropping by and making
some time for us. Thank you. Lizanne
Sonders
at Charles Schwab. Let's check out the
annuls again. So, we've heard from two
two big players. We've heard from Dentsu
and American. Dentsu first. Dentsu right
this morning revising their outlook
given an upbeat outlook for the first
quarter. That's good news. That stock
was higher in the pre-market. Delta
Airlines higher by 5%. Some really
strong commentary coming from that
company. It's not just the consumer.
It's corporate travel as well. Surging
demand for corporate travel across
sectors. That name doing nicely. It's
not just Delta. It's American Airlines
as well. American Airlines is higher in
the pre-market by 4%. They also gave an
upbeat forecast as well for first
quarter revenue moments ago. Lisa, I
think this is important. So, the
market's getting some encouragement more
broadly, I think. How's the consumer
doing? How are businesses doing? Not
just in January, February after the war.
How are they doing in the first few
weeks of March? And these companies are
telling you pretty well. The consumer is
confident and the consumer is spending
and the consumer is waiting on those TSA
lines and still traveling. The fact that
they previously had seen 7 to 10% gains
in revenue and now they're guiding to
the 10% level highlights that resilience
and sort of builds off what we heard
from Delta saying that they saw eight
out of 10 of the busiest March days ever
so far given the early quarter read.
Question here, what does that mean for
profits? It means they probably stay the
same because ultimately they are dealing
with higher fuel costs. So, this goes to
the question of is it stagflationary
just dampening some of the potential
growth. In other words, if you get out
of the way, the US economy is poised to
rip. And right now, sure, there's a bit
of a cushion sitting on it, but at the
same time, it's not enough to make the
stag really the preeminent theme here.
>> It's one sector, two companies, granted.
But, we want to know how are they
engaging with the economy, consumers and
corporations right now? Are they
disengaging because of the headlines of
the past two weeks? And based on the
headlines from those two companies,
they're not. Equity futures turning
positive just a touch by about a tenth
of 1% on the S&P 500. Let's get [snorts]
an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Yohai
has more. Hi, Yohai.
>> [music]
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump is
continuing to appeal to other nations to
help secure the Strait of Hormuz. The
president voicing frustration [music]
with countries that have been publicly
non-committal about helping ensure safe
passage [music] and even called out NATO
for failing to act.
Morgan Stanley is warning that private
credit default rates will hit 8% as AI
continues disrupting the software
industry. The bank saying that while AI
disruption has yet to impact private
credit fundamentals in a material way,
elevated leverage and looming maturity
walls within the software sector may
push default rates to levels [music] not
seen since the pandemic.
And JP Morgan is planning to add
hundreds of jobs in Boston after
agreeing to become the anchor tenant in
the city's newest skyscraper. [music]
The bank expects to hire about 300
employees in commercial banking, private
banking, and institutional sales and
marketing over the next several [music]
years. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
Yohai, thank you. More from Yohai later
this hour. Up next on the program, the
Morning Call's plus Gil Luria of DA
Davidson on Nvidia's trillion-dollar
forecast. That conversation up next.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
I think trying to forecast the path of
this of this Middle East conflict is
incredibly difficult. It's fraught with
difficulty. But what I will say is is
that it once again highlights US
exceptionalism [music] in different
formats. Of course, if it goes on for a
long period of time, yes, then of course
all bets are off and we would probably
expect a significantly lower move in
risk assets. That was is Altman of
Barclays constructive for the equity
market? More balanced, [music] I would
say coming from the man from Barclays.
Encouraged by some of headlines that are
coming out of the airline industry so
far this morning. Delta Airlines,
American Airlines forecasting a better
outlook for the first quarter. The first
[music] quarter so far consumers
engaging, corporate America engaging.
It's not a read on things right now, but
a better read of what's happening in
this economy given the risks elsewhere.
Things can change quickly, but so far so
good. Equities turning higher off the
back of some of these headlines. Equity
futures positive by about a tenth of 1%
on the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq just about
unchanged. That's the price action.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up Mizuho raising its price target on
Chevron to 217 citing higher global oil
prices as a positive for the sector.
HSBC [music] raising its price target on
Johnson & Johnson to 280 saying
geopolitical risk and an uncertain macro
backdrop could boost the sector. And
finally Stifel reiterating its 250 price
target and buy rating on Nvidia
expecting its longer-term opportunity
total funnel could exceed $1 trillion.
Sticking with Nvidia, [music] the chip
maker making a big prediction.
Right here where I stand,
I see
through 2027
at least
$1 trillion.
The CEO Jensen Huang making a bold
prediction as [music] computing demand
soars. Bloomberg's Ed Ludlow joins us
now for more. Ed, welcome to the
program. I asked this question earlier.
Help us out. $1 trillion what? What's he
talking about?
Extended visibility for demand into
another year. You know, it's as simple
as that really.
Um the $1 trillion is for a range of
2025 through the end of calendar 2027.
The prior outlook was $500 billion of
demand specifically for Blackwell and
Rubin systems and it included
networking. And that was essentially
from October through to the end of
calendar 26. The difficulty is when that
number hit and you saw it in the market
reaction, right? You know, Nvidia really
surged, took the indexes with it, but
what Wall Street quickly did the math
and it came back down, they didn't
include those same qualifiers. They
weren't explicit on stage or through a
regulatory filing about the composition
of what's in the the 1 trillion. So, it
it's basically cumulative expected sales
and you know, the
the thing that bow ties it, the
important point is that they they still
believe they'll be supply constrained in
that period. Um the way that Jensen
Huang put it on stage is they'll be
short. Um and the story being that
demand through Nvidia's lenders lenses
very much intact.
>> Based on what I just heard from you, Ed,
that sounds like it was heavy on
marketing and low on substance. What was
the big takeaway from yesterday?
Yeah, I think mostly that the supply
constraint, you know, uh Nvidia
argues two things. That it tells its
supply chain and customers many years in
advance what it's going to do, and
that's true. So, they have time to plan
for it.
Um within that 1 trillion dollar
forecast, there was an associated pie
chart next to it, which showed that 60%
of that buying is going to still be the
hyperscalers, the cloud computing
companies. And that's something that's
been very closely watched because if you
look at the sell-side reaction, Nvidia's
basically a leading indicator that CapEx
in the short term will hold up if its
numbers are to be believed. The issue in
in I think you guys just showed the
pre-market move and the stock price
relatively muted. That 1 trillion is
very close to consensus anyway. It so,
it doesn't really move the needle in
terms of trajectory, it just gives a bit
more certainty to lots of people
people's mind on what the biggest
deployers of capital expenditures are
going to do. On the other hand, you
know, Nvidia keeps telling us that we're
supply constrained. They won't be able
to to get hold of enough GPUs to meet
the demand that's out there,
um which is a good problem for them to
have, but for the rest of the industry,
difficult to model for. Ed, good to see
you. Thanks for dropping by and updating
us. Looking forward to the program
later. Bloomberg Technology coming up a
few hours from now on Bloomberg TV. Gil
Luria of D.A. Davidson has a buy rating
and a 250 price target on shares of
Nvidia. Gil joins us now for more. Gil,
welcome. You heard Ed talking about it
there, supply constrained. Is that a
good problem to have?
Well, not for Nvidia, and in fact,
they're working very hard to help all
the other participants in the ecosystem
figure it out, so they can sell more
chips. Nvidia's biggest problem right
now is if everybody is not catching up
to demand as well as they are. And so
they've actually gone as far as
organizing the whole supply chain around
what they're calling an AI factory,
which is to say they're going to start
coordinating all of the different
participants in building out data
centers on their platform, so they can
be more coordinated, so there won't be
as many delays in data centers. If there
is not a warm shell in a data center
ready for GPUs, they can't sell GPUs. So
now Nvidia, beyond just making its own
product, has to help everybody else make
their product in time, so they can sell
more GPUs. Gil, did it bother you that
we don't have a lot of clarity around
this $1 trillion number that was
massive, but didn't really offer much
visibility?
Uh you know, I'll I'll take the other
side of that, which is to say for the
longest time Nvidia just guided one
quarter at a time, and that meant that
investors didn't really have that much
visibility going forward. In October,
they extended that for for 12 to 15
months, and now they're extending it out
another 12 months. That's actually very
helpful. Now, is it not it is a specific
number with qualifications? Not maybe
not, but keep in mind, consensus
estimates for next year are 460 billion,
and he just added 500 billion. So, it
doesn't matter how you qualify that
number, that means that NVIDIA expects
to grow more than 30% next year. Not
just this year, but next year. But, part
of the problem is the market is not
believing it. If NVIDIA is trading at
22-23 times earnings, which is basically
a market multiple, that and on the very
low end of their historical multiple
range, that tells you the market just
doesn't believe it. And Jensen Huang is
pushing rope. He could have said $2
trillion for next year, and the market's
just not believing it. Now, he has a lot
of credibility he's gained it over the
years, but the market is saying, "We are
skeptical that this great data center
buildout will continue into next year."
The good news for NVIDIA shareholders
is, the closer we get to that, the more
NVIDIA can show that it is actually
going to grow into next year. That's the
upside to the stock. What was Olaf doing
on stage with Jensen Huang?
>> [laughter]
>> They were trying to illustrate that
humanoid robotics and other types of
robotics are making huge leaps forward.
So, they brought Olaf from Frozen to
life. Uh they had a
a music video recap. It was a very high
production event yesterday. Uh NVIDIA is
expanding well beyond the GPU. I think
that's the big takeaway from day one of
GTC is that, really up until now, it's
been GPU and CUDA, and maybe networking.
And now they have they've expanded that
a lot. So, multiple software options,
multiple networking options. They're
going to start selling CPUs
individually. And the most important
takeaway from yesterday is the addition
of the Groq chip into their data center
systems. That will bring them to
such a level of inference productivity
that's going to extend their lead over
Broadcom and AMD. That's the biggest
takeaway because there were a lot of
concerns that oh, Broadcom AMD catching
up with GPUs, custom GPUs, ASICs. And
what Nvidia just did is by integrating
Groq, they're saying, "No, we're going
to extend our lead. The cost per token
on our platform for inference is going
to be a fraction of everybody else. The
productivity per second per in for
inference is going to be much better
than our competitors." So, that was the
big news yesterday. Go. Appreciate your
time. Thank you, sir. Go Louis there of
D.A. Davidson. I'm struggling to find
what the takeaways were from yesterday
given your question.
>> [laughter]
>> That was Lisa's takeaway.
Well, I was just really struck by the
fact that they had this whole build-up
about the creation of robot Olaf and
then bring it to the stage. The takeaway
was ultimately they're moving into
robotics, they're moving into
self-driving vehicles, they're moving
into deploying this in some sort of
cheaper version through a broader swath
of the economy. [music] That's the goal.
That's how they get to a trillion
dollars. A lot of the other details kind
of not not exactly clear.
>> buying it at the moment. Stock really
has stalled. That rally has stalled out
big time over the last 4 months. Nvidia
this morning higher by 2/10 of [music]
1%. Up next, Greg Ahearn of EY Parthenon
tomorrow's rate decision and Danny with
your morning movers, the airlines in
focus.
The airlines in focus this morning, the
equity market turning higher off a
better outlook from the airline
industry. We'll get to those names in
just a moment. Futures positive by 1/10
of 1% [music] on the S&P and on the
Russell of small caps turning around. We
were negative across the board about an
hour ago. That's turned around in the
last 60 [music] minutes. Let's get you
some single names, the morning movers.
Danny Hasmore. Hey, Danny.
>> John, let me get you those airlines.
Again, the results looking strong for
all of them, despite [music] the fact
that there are higher fuel prices and
concerns about consumer appetite. It is
there. Delta, JetBlue, American Air, all
of them pointing to a more positive
outlook to come. Yes, fuel prices are
up, but that is not stopping spending.
Just looking at Delta, for example, it
now sees its revenue growth in the first
quarter between 7 and 9% previously 7%
was the high end of expectations. So,
that's a positive sign. Elsewhere, Uber
and Lyft, both the rideshare companies
are moving on the upside. Both of them
announcing in a a partnership with
Nvidia to expand an autonomous vehicle
uh fleet of cars using their technology.
Uber looking to expand into Los Angeles
and San Francisco. Uh finally, wrapping
things up with the company that was also
on the upside yesterday. Nebius, this is
the Neo Cloud. Yesterday, we learned
[music]
that Meta had signed one of their
biggest ever single contracts with the
company to use more of their facilities.
Nebius [music] this morning uh
uh uh putting into the market a just
under $4 billion convertible debt
offering. [music]
Uh a dilutive event, so that tends to
move shares lower. So, they are moving
lower just under 7% this morning in the
premarket, [music] John. Danny, thank
you. Looking forward to the show
alongside Matt Miller, Danny Burger, at
about 9:00 a.m. Eastern time guiding you
into the open about. We're over waiting
the headlines coming out of the Middle
East for good reason, they're important.
The airlines have been beaten up over
the past few weeks with high fuel costs
in mind. This update from them is
really, really important. Consumers
still engaging with travel, not backing
away. [music]
Corporate America is not disengaging,
either. This headline, they see surging
demand for corporate travel across
sectors. To me, this is arguably uh one
of the better tells on the overall
economy. Understanding that yes, the
people who choose to fly tend to be
higher income, so it isn't necessarily
representative of the overall average
economy. Nonetheless, the confidence
that people have to travel and the fact
that everyone who I talked to you in the
business world is traveling that much
more because of the uncertainty, not
necessarily less,
>> [music]
>> gives you a sense of why some people are
saying, "Hold on a second. Are things
really as bad as expected?" Alex Altman
saying that the increase in oil prices
hasn't had the pass-through, negative
pass-through to the US economy, as much
as people had expected.
>> the storm right now, but still this
headline that they saw a $400 million
spike in fuel costs in March. If this
continues, can they withstand that for
much longer? When you think about the
crews coming out of the Middle East,
it's medium and heavy crude, more than
half of that percent, more than 50% of
that. That is to make jet fuel.
>> [music]
>> These prices are going to go up higher,
like we see in diesel today in the
United States above $5 a gallon. At what
point does then it start to hurt?
>> Right now, if the stocks are going high,
Delta up by 5%, American up by more
[music] than four. A two-day meeting
beginning in Washington, D.C. later on
this morning for the Federal Reserve.
The war in Iran throwing fresh
uncertainty into the economic outlook.
Bloomberg's Enda Curran joins us now for
more. Enda, set the stage. They get
around the table. It was already
confusing enough, and now they've got a
massive risk emerging in the Middle
East.
Yeah, it's going to be an opportunity
now to get a new narrative from the Fed,
John. The first time we'll hear from
Chair Powell in terms of how Fed policy
makers are thinking about the Iran
shock. Are they going to view this as
the classic supply-side shock,
near-term, look through it without, of
course, mentioning the uh the word
transitory? Or or will he give a hint at
perhaps bigger picture to going to be
worried about how higher oil prices will
impact consumers and businesses
businesses, and then, by extension, at
some point, the Fed might actually have
to start resuming cutting rates uh down
the road. But near-term for this
particular meeting, no change in policy
expected. Keep an eye on the new growth
and inflation forecasts. The new
projections for interest rate moves by
the FOMC members will will be
interesting. And of course, dissent. See
where people like Governor Governor
Waller come down whether or not he
pushes for a cut if they do stand hold.
Governor Mester is expected to dissent
and keep an eye on Governor Bowman, too.
Governor Waller on this program had
already said it was a coin flip. Came
onto the program on payrolls Friday and
basically said you get another week,
Brent. And ultimately, I'm going to lead
in one direction versus the other. It
looks like he's going to vote for a rate
cut. And to the other question we got, a
question for the chairman in the news
conference, his future. And uh what do
we know about what's going to happen
here over the next few months at the top
of this institution?
Still a lot of uncertainty. Political
The The political story is absolutely
there, John, as you mentioned. We had of
course the big court ruling last week
quashing those subpoenas against the Fed
by the DOJ. On paper, that suggested
maybe a sigh of relief for the Fed in
terms of that particular investigation,
but we know the DOJ will push on with
that. They've said they will appeal. One
wrinkle that came out of those court
documents, John, was some commentary in
there, some exchanges between the DOJ
and the Fed attorneys whereby it became
clear that Chair Powell has said he
can't really leave the Fed until this
investigation plays out. Now, of course,
his term as chair will end in May one
way or another, but his term as a
governor of the Fed runs until January
2028.
And these court documents show that so
long as the criminal investigation is
carried on, he is not going anywhere.
That of course is very important in
terms of allowing President Trump the
opportunity to appoint someone to
replace him. He has said publicly he
wants to stack the board. And of course,
it will it will have implications for
where monetary policy goes near term as
well. So, there's a lot of both
economics and politics at play in this
Fed meeting over the next few days.
>> And uh Karen, thank you, sir. Down in
Washington, D.C. There was an off-ramp
available to the administration and
ultimately, nobody's taking it.
>> Yeah, they are saying that they're going
to appeal the Supreme Court's decision
that they can't go forward with this,
which again is a question. Does this
mean to Emory's point, and you raised
this and I thought it was a really
salient one, does that mean they want
Jay Powell to remain so that he can be
sort of the whipping post for all
concerns economic?
>> It's a bit odd, isn't it?
>> I mean, it doesn't make any sense.
>> You've got your nomination, he's lined
up. Senate is going to confirm him.
We've heard from all the key players,
they want to confirm this individual,
and you're holding things up. Why? So,
there are two ways to read this. On one
hand, you could say you just can't let
it go, and you want to win, and it's
sort of just this visual win, and that
is what we're seeing. And number two,
there's a feeling that maybe they want
to push this off as long as possible
because this is a difficult period of
time economically to make any kind of
definitive decision, and they want to
have a fall guy, and they have one, and
one person who's at the head of the with
at the Fed.
>> It gets harder for Jay Powell to pump
penultimate meeting. What's your future?
What's the leadership of this
institution look like? Succession
planning. You're not in charge of all of
that, I get that, but ultimately, where
you leaning? What are you doing? Where
you going to be come June? And a couple
months ago, Jay Powell became much more
political with that announcement that he
made, that recorded announcement on a
Sunday night. Does he revisit that tone
and say something specific about this?
If he doesn't, that in and of itself is
going to be a signal. Is this sort of,
you know, misdirection on purpose, or is
this ultimately he just hasn't decided
yet?
>> Toothpaste is out of the tube. Now, he
didn't start this, but he chose how to
react right before the opening of mouth
Sunday evening, the opening of markets
in Asia. He himself engaged politically
in a way that I think people still
question to this very day. I think it
makes it much, much harder for him now
to back away from any conversation about
his future given how politically it's
become, and you can't on the one hand
say I don't want to engage in a
politics,
and the next moment say I'm happy to
engage in a politics. Once you start
doing that, got to be consistent.
>> Right, and he could just be asked a
question that has nothing to do with the
actual personalities involved and just
what would happened in these cases. The
Wall Street Journal editorial board is
actually out with a piece today though
and says to the administration, take the
hint. This may be a loss, but actually
for you it could be a win, and it's an
off-ramp, which is why I started to
think about, well, why do they want
maybe Jay Powell to stick around?
>> It's odd they're not taking that
off-ramp. Greg Daco of EY Parthenon and
doesn't want to talk about this. He
wants to talk about the outlook. Given
our higher headline and core PCE
inflation forecast, we have revised our
baseline to show only 125 basis point
rate cut in '26. Greg joins us now for
more. Greg, good morning. Good morning.
Well, sprinkle some politics in, no
doubt. Clearly, this is a really
difficult moment for the Federal
Reserve. We're off the back of a really
weak jobs report. We can get into that
in a moment. And we've got the potential
for an inflationary shock, as well. How
do you think that mix comes up in the
outlook tomorrow? I think in general,
what it will show the outlook from the
the Fed's perspective is that we have
the greater risk of a stagflationary
scenario. Uh and that is problematic for
the Fed, because we know that a lot of
policymakers before the uh report uh for
employment in February were essentially
leaning more hawkish. Um and even uh
Governor Waller, as you mentioned, was
leaning towards a 50/50 coin flip as to
whether he would dissent if the Fed held
rates constant. So, we have this hawkish
lean, and what's likely to happen is
that the Fed is going to be on pause.
Why? Because they do not like this type
of stagflationary environment, and they
do not want to preemptively react to
either inflation moving up or growth
moving lower. And with policy being
close to neutral, they feel like they're
well positioned to essentially wait and
see the data. So, that's why we're not
expecting any move over the course of
the next few months by the Fed. They're
going to be very data reactive, and
they're going to wait out to see how
this plays out. You don't get the sense
that anyone's particularly excited about
the actual decision, about the fact that
they're going to remain on hold, and
that's pretty much a given. They are
curious, though, about the statement of
economic projections. How seriously do
we have to take those? I mean,
ultimately, isn't it just at a time like
this
throwing a dart at a dartboard? It is a
bit uh throwing a dart at a dartboard,
because we don't know what the
assumptions are going to be, and we
don't know how each policymaker is going
to look at these assumptions. We have
the same type of issue with tariffs.
What were the tariffs assumptions by the
different policymakers, and how did that
influence the meeting? So,
if you consider today's environment,
what's key to factor is where oil prices
are going to be in 3, 6, 9, and 12
months time. Where are interest rates
going to be in that environment and how
is economic activity going to react
according to that? I don't think we have
a lot of clarity. I think what's even
more important is how the statement will
be framed. There's going to be more
focus on downside risk to employment,
upside risk to inflation. Let's not
forget in the minutes from the January
meeting, there was a very close call as
to whether we would have a two-sided
statement putting back on the table the
possibility of rate hikes. That should
not be discounted in this environment.
>> Do you think that's warranted? I mean,
if you look at history, oil price shocks
typically are disinflationary or
outright deflationary over the long
term. It typically torpedoes growth when
it is for a prolonged period of time at
a certain level and I'm talking more
than $150 than $100 a barrel in today's
world. Do you think that it is
appropriate for them to put a rate hike
back on the table? I don't think it
would be appropriate right now, but I
think we have to consider the
environment in which we've been evolving
over the last few years. I wrote a
recent note on the FOMC saying once
burned, twice cautious. And the memory
of the burn from 2021 and 2022 when the
Fed said the tariff shock and the
post-COVID shock were going to be
transitory was essentially misguided
because we saw this pervasive
inflationary environment. Today, we are
in an environment where there are a
number of supply constraints. What do
supply constraints do? They limit your
output, they push up inflation. Add
another geopolitical shock where oil
prices are rising and they will filter
through into transportation cost, into
air travel, and that will lead to a more
prolonged, longer tail in terms of
inflation. And so, while rate hikes are
not necessarily optimal right now
because monetary policy is arguably
close to neutral, there could be an
environment in which inflation proves
more persistent and where some policy
makers argue that we should actually
have higher interest rates to bring
inflation back down consistently and
sustainably back down to the 2% target.
Greg, news conference scene. I'm Michael
McKee from Bloomberg TV. Chairman
Powell, will the next meeting be your
last meeting? How does he respond? I
don't know, Mike. I think he's going to
be very cautious. He's going to want to
stray away from that. It's a bit of a
paradox because he did come out quite
openly when there was the initial DOJ
probe into the Fed and his testimony to
Congress. We now have, as you were
saying to Anne Marie, an off-ramp
possibility with the judge injunction
that the probe may not continue. And so
this is a key key question, excuse me,
in terms of Fed Powell's future. We have
to remember that his term as governor
lasts another 2 years beyond the end of
his term as Fed chair. We also have to
remember that the head of the Fed and
the head of the FOMC can be two
different individuals. So we could very
well be in an environment where past his
term as Fed chair, the FOMC just
continues to go with Fed chair Powell as
governor, but then head of the FOMC,
which is a key decision-maker when it
comes to policy-making.
>> I imagine he avoids the question. By his
case, as many people, he avoids the
question. I also imagine it's not hugely
consequential if he does avoid the
question at this meeting. Does it start
to become consequential for anybody, for
market participants, for Fed watchers,
when we don't know the future of the top
of the Federal Reserve? Absolutely,
because there are a number of potential
scenarios. He could leave, he could stay
on as a governor, he could stay on as a
governor and as head of the FOMC. So for
market participants that are trying to
gauge the Fed's reaction function in the
type of environment that Lisa was just
describing where you have the
stagflationary shock and it's uncertain
what the optimal policy decision is
going to be. Uncertain as to how
transitory the inflation shock may be.
Yes, it is key for for market
participants to know who is going to be
leading be the leading voice around the
table when it comes to making decisions.
We know this is a vote, but the leading
voice from the FOMC chair is very, very
important.
>> think market participants are looking at
this and thinking the administration
wants someone they can blame potentially
some economic fallout on?
I really don't know the answer to that
question because it's unclear as to what
will be the trajectory over the coming
months. We know that policy tends to
pivot fairly quickly. We know that we're
in an environment where there's a lot of
uncertainty when it comes to Fed policy.
There's a lot of uncertainty when it
comes to geopolitical uncertainty.
There's a lot of uncertain geopolitical
policy. There's a lot of uncertainty
when it comes to tariffs. And we have to
remember this. This is an environment
where it's not just about what's
happening in the Middle East. We still
have in the background an environment
where you have historical tariff rates.
You have a historical reduction in
immigration. You have AI that's leading
the boom in terms of productivity
growth. So, you have all of these
different elements that are coming at
the same time and we tend to be focused
on just one thing, but the reality is
that there's so much uncertainty that I
think it's very difficult for market
participants and for the administration
to calibrate what they're going to do
next in this type of environment.
>> Correct. I was going to say yeah, they
had enough on that table already. They
got one extra now. Greg Daco there of EY
Parthenon. I don't want to inject drama
whether there isn't any and there
doesn't need to be any. I don't think it
has to be a dramatic news conference
tomorrow. It could well be a boring one.
I imagine that's the goal of the Federal
Reserve and the chairman going into that
meeting tomorrow. But by the time you
get to the end of April, which should be
his last meeting at the Federal Reserve,
he should be in a position to provide
some guidance. And I know a lot of this
is out of the Federal Reserve's hands
right now. There was an off-ramp. The
administration didn't take it. The
ball's in their court. At the April
meeting, he'll have to answer on some
level. There will have to be some more
conclusion and maybe he can wait it out
until there is more clarity about who
potentially could be put in. In the
meantime, they have a lot of drama in
terms of what they have to characterize
as boring. I mean, they have to
characterize an economy that is
absolutely a jumble with on one hand a
consumer that does appear to be strong
on the other hand an oil shock that
could potentially torpedo everything.
And they want to come out and be as
boring as possible. Good luck. Do
nothing, say little. And appear to be
non-committal. I think And is the goal
ultimately, right?
>> Sounds lovely. Let's give you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Yahaira has more.
Hey, Yahaira. Hi, John. Iran striking
new targets across the Persian Gulf. The
UAE suspended operations at the Shaibah
natural gas field due to a fire, while a
drone attack temporarily shut the
Fujairah port.
>> [music]
>> An Iraqi oil field and a key Emirati
port were also targeted.
American Airlines rising after
projecting a more than 10%
year-over-year revenue increase in the
first quarter. The outlook [music] comes
despite the company losing hundreds of
millions of dollars during January's
winter storm. [music]
And shares of Delta also trading higher,
up 4.4%. The company issuing a more
optimistic sales [music] target for the
first quarter after bookings accelerated
into March.
And Bank of America releasing its March
fund manager survey, showing sentiment
has begun to turn bearish after months
of near peak optimism. Global growth
optimism among respondents [music]
plummeting from 39% to 7%, while cash
levels surged tracking their biggest
jump since the pandemic. And rate cut
hopes now sitting at their lowest level
since early 2023, [music] but so far no
one is pricing in a recession. That's
your Bloomberg brief, John. Yahaira,
thank you. Thanks for this morning. Up
next, we'll set you up for the day
ahead. Plus, Lisa Hornby of Schroders
drops by on finding opportunity in fixed
income. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV. [music]
If we had known that you were going to
more than double from the December low
in oil to where we got to a week week
and change ago, would you have really
thought that stocks [music] would only
have been down 5%? It speaks to the
resilience of the market. It speaks to
the resilience of the economy. [music]
The fact that you're going to get
double-digit earnings growth this year
speaks to the fact that markets can move
[music] higher. Does it speak to
resilience or complacency? That was
Julian Emanuel of Evercore. We have
thrown a tremendous amount at this
market and it has stood up really really
well. Futures [music] positive right now
by 2/10 of 1% following an upbeat guide
coming out of the airlines this morning
from both Delta and American Airlines.
Up by 2/10 on the S&P and the Nasdaq up
by 0.1. That's the price action. This is
the trading diary as we count you down
to the opening bell about 40 minutes
away. [music]
At 11:00 a.m. Eastern time, the
president meeting with the prime
minister of Ireland. On Wednesday, PPI
data plus a Fed rate decision and
Chairman Powell news conference. On
Thursday,
>> [music]
>> rate decisions from wait for it, BOJ,
BOE, and ECB. And another round of
jobless claims [music] just before
Friday going into the weekend.
Treasuries holding steady ahead of
tomorrow's Fed rate decision and a whole
lot more. Lisa Hornby of Schroders
writing the following, "Fixed income
yields have become more attractive
increasing opportunity for building a
diversified income-oriented portfolio."
Lisa joins us now for more. Lisa, good
morning. Hi. So, the bond market's a buy
after the backup of the last few weeks?
Uh I wouldn't say monolithically, but I
would say there are definitely
components that have Selectively.
Exactly.
>> Where would you select?
>> Uh well, let's just start with this.
Yields are higher than they have been in
the past and I think that's what made
what's made this crisis a little bit
more unique is that actually, as rates
have gone up, we're actually seeing more
yield-based buyers come in and that
demand is there. So, they've stepped up.
They have stepped up. We're seeing that
in uh the survey data. Obviously, the
hedge rate the cost of hedging in
certain jurisdictions has gotten a
little bit less onerous or making the
all-in relative value of the US market
more attractive and that's something
that we were struggling with a bit, you
know, 12 months ago and now we're
starting to to that demand come back.
And that's for treasuries, long end
treasuries you're talking about
specifically.
>> And credit as well. Uh credit as well.
So, they're meeting a slew of bond
sales. I mean, really just a huge glut
of issuance that we've seen over the
past couple of weeks, particularly
investment grade credit. And we've seen
spreads start to widen out. Can you
explain why credit markets seem to be so
wide open, so receptive to all of these
potential deals at the same time that
everyone says that they're so worried
about private credit?
So, I think there's a couple of things.
First of all, the yield base buying is a
real thing, right? So, even these deals
that have come and people were worried
about supply. You know, there's
obviously going to be massive supply in
tech this year.
Um and already it's it's started, but
people were worried about supply, but
also, you know, the yields on the index,
depending on which index you look at, 5
and a quarter percent, 5 and a half
percent.
60% of the credit of the market is yield
base buyers. So, all that matters is
kind of the line in the sand. If you can
achieve a certain objective and certain
yield objective, then you're coming in
to buy. Does that mean that spreads are
going to go in a straight line up or
even down? No, I think that there's
going to be puts and takes, and
certainly this year, and part of the the
rest of the comment that I that you
started with was there's a lot more
dispersion in markets. And so, this is a
much more idiosyncratic issuer
selective market than it has been in the
past. You know, there are some years
where it's just beta. You just want to
buy the market and that's it, or you
want to sell the market and that's it.
This year it's about doing your stock
selection homework and making sure you
understand the underlying fundamentals
of the issuers out there. Earlier this
year, among all asset classes, there was
a feeling go outside the United States
that maybe there was a threat to the US
dollar dominance, etc. It seems like
that has completely gone on its head,
and I wonder how much you're seeing
yield base buyers come back to the US
from overseas that had been looking for
opportunities in emerging markets in
Europe and elsewhere. So, I can tell you
anecdotally, it's funny. We think a lot
about those investors, especially at a
at a British firm. we have a lot of
non-US based investors. And I was
talking to a Japanese client recently
and yields in Japan have clearly gone up
quite dramatically and one of the things
we've been talking about is, "Hey, are
you still interested in the US market or
is it now more attractive for you to buy
your own market?" And he said, "Look,
it's definitely become slightly more
attractive, but at the end of the day,
Japanese credit markets are very small
and not diversified. We need to look at
the US and we need to continue to do
that." And so, yes, there may be other
alternatives and certainly the cost of
hedging and things like that, rates
moving higher abroad is a big deal, but
at the end of the day, you're going to
want to build a diversified portfolio.
If you have dollar liabilities, you're
going to want to match them with dollar
assets. So, I think there's a whole host
of reasons why international investors
still look at this market.
>> And this is where the depth is, that's
for sure.
I want to finish on this. Of the
conversations you have across regions
right now, do you sense a difference
between different regions based on how
they're experiencing this shock coming
out of the Middle East and their
attitudes to it? Yes. Um, I mean,
certainly some areas are more exposed
directly to the to the oil and gas
markets. They are more sensitive to
importing demand. I mean,
you're probably talking more about
developed markets. I think that's
clearly that's clearly
true. I think it's true in emerging
markets as well. I mean, you have
certain energy importers that have
become under quite a lot of pressure
just given terms of trade are going to
be shocking more negatively. On the flip
side, you have energy exporters or those
who are less dependent on the energy
import sector and I think they're
actually doing quite well and actually
well positioned. So, yes on all on all
fronts in terms of what it looks like
for the consumer and economic growth,
different impacts depending depending on
where you are. It also in terms of what
it looks for like for the region as a
whole, just, you know, the business and
the industry there. That shock cascading
through the global economy. Lisa, good
to see you. Great to see you.
>> Lisa Hornby of Schroders, quite a
morning so far. The strikes continue in
the Middle East. We're seeing the damage
done to energy infrastructure, [music]
some key targets in and around taken out
by the Israelis, confirmed by them a
little bit earlier. But still, the
backdrop for the American economy
[music] in focus, a better story coming
out of the airlines, American and Delta.
So far this morning, futures just about
[music] positive. Big day tomorrow, a
Fed decision just around the corner.
Looking forward to covering it with you.
From New York City this morning, good
morning. [music]
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.